The Project Gutenberg eBook of The unseen ear, by Natalie Sumner
Lincoln

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The unseen ear

Author: Natalie Sumner Lincoln

Release Date: August 3, 2022 [eBook #68679]

Language: English

Produced by: D A Alexander and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
             at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by University of California
             libraries)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE UNSEEN EAR ***





  THE UNSEEN EAR


  BY NATALIE SUMNER LINCOLN

  AUTHOR OF _“I Spy,” “The Moving Finger,” “The Nameless Man,”
  “The Red   Seal,” “The Three Strings,” etc._

  WITH FRONTISPIECE

  A. L. BURT COMPANY
  Publishers New York

  Published by arrangement with D. Appleton & Company

  Printed in U. S. A.




  COPYRIGHT, 1921, BY D. APPLETON AND COMPANY

  Copyright, 1920, by Street and Smith
  PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




[Illustration: DROPPING ON HER KNEES, SHE TURNED THE DIAL [page 249]]




                                  TO
                               MY MOTHER
                     WHOSE UNFLAGGING INTEREST HAS
                   STIMULATED MY LITERARY WORK, THIS
                  LATEST BOOK IS LOVINGLY INSCRIBED.




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                    PAGE

      I THROUGH THE PORTIÈRES                  1
     II IDENTIFIED                             6
    III THEORIES                              23
     IV LOST: A MEMORANDUM                    41
      V MORE THEORIES                         57
     VI SPECULATION                           77
    VII THE KNAVE OF HEARTS                   94
   VIII PRO AND CON                          113
     IX HALF A SHEET                         123
      X BELOW STAIRS                         140
     XI THE THREAT                           153
    XII THE THEFT                            169
   XIII “MIZPAH”                             182
    XIV SUSPICION                            193
     XV THE PUSH BUTTON                      209
    XVI LINKS IN THE CHAIN                   225
   XVII THE DANCING SILHOUETTES              242
  XVIII EDGED TOOLS                          252
    XIX THE UNSEEN EAR                       270
     XX RUN TO COVER                         279




THE UNSEEN EAR




CHAPTER I

THROUGH THE PORTIÈRES


THE bedroom door opened and closed on its oiled hinges without a
sound, and a man walked over to the closet. With methodical care he
hung his coat on its accustomed peg before moving deliberately over
to his bureau. On its highly polished top he laid down a soiled scrap
of paper. His quiet, orderly actions gave no indication of the rage
consuming him. As he raised his head his eyes traveled upward and he
started back involuntarily at the face contemplating him in the mirror.
His face--but was that distorted countenance his face? With a shudder
he glanced over his shoulder and about the room; then slowly, fearfully
he turned to face his other self mirrored in the glass before him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Judith Richards poked the fire into a brighter blaze, then leaned back
in her chair with a little sigh of content and idly turned over the
pages of the book she had been reading. The happy ending recorded in
the romance reflected her own mood. Two months a bride! Her lips parted
in a tender smile as events of her happy married life recurred to her,
and dropping the book in her lap, she rested her head against the
tufted chair and watched the burning logs in dreamy contemplation. She
was not conscious of the lateness of the hour or of the fact that she
was no longer alone in the large library.

The newcomer who had entered noiselessly through the portières hanging
before the doorway leading from the library into the dining room, moved
cautiously forward to obtain a better view of Judith. Satisfied that
he had not disturbed her reverie, he sidled stealthily over to a large
safe, which stood near a mahogany desk, and dropped on his knees before
it.

Without rising from his crouching position, he pushed forward a chair
until its broad proportions completely sheltered his movements should
Judith turn around and glance in his direction; then, losing no further
time, he twirled the dial of the safe around with practiced fingers,
and as the massive door finally swung open he went systematically
through each compartment of the safe. Fully twenty minutes passed and
the man moistened his dry lips. Was his search to go unrewarded?

As he felt about in the last compartment to be examined his fingers
encountered a piece of paper caught apparently in a crevice. With
infinite care he pulled it loose, and rising, walked over to the
electric-light bracket on the wall by the door through which he had
entered the library. One of the bulbs was burning, and as he bent his
head to examine the piece of paper, his eyes caught the flash of steel
as it darted through the portières, and he instinctively recoiled--but
too late to avoid the thrust. With a whimpering cry he fell face
downward, his blood staining the handsome rugs.

Judith stirred and sat up, then after a comfortable stretch of her
stiffened muscles, she replaced her book on the table, and with a
glance at the mantel clock, paused to warm her hands at the smoldering
embers.

It was much later than she had supposed--one o’clock. With a faint
shiver she pulled her dainty warm wrapper more closely about her
slender figure before leaning over to switch off the reading lamp.
Picking up her large sewing bag she walked across the library intending
to press the wall button which controlled the electric side lights.
But her intention was forgotten as her sleepy eyes caught sight of the
crumpled figure lying in front of the entrance to the dining room.

A cry broke from her and slowly her shocked wits took in the
significance of the ever widening red stain creeping across the rugs
and floor. For long seconds she stood staring, too terrified to move.
Gradually gathering courage, she advanced and, placing one trembling
hand on the man’s shoulder, rolled him over until his face was exposed
to view. With a bound she regained her feet, her hands raised to her
throbbing temples, while the sewing bag tumbled unheeded to the floor.

She was unaware of the passing time as she gazed at the face before
her, a face scarcely less gray in death than her own, from which every
ray of color had been stricken. Slowly, slowly she took in every detail
of the man’s appearance, then with numb, clumsy fingers she jerked a
long pair of steel shears from her sewing bag and, kneeling down once
more by the dead man, she hacked and tore at his watch chain until she
had loosened a small locket.

Slipping the locket inside her belt and clutching the sewing bag, she
staggered to her feet and made her way into the large central hall as a
key turned in the front door and a man stepped inside the house.

“Joe! Thank God!” Judith’s low cry ended abruptly, and her husband was
just in time to catch her as she fell unconscious to the floor.




CHAPTER II

IDENTIFIED


DETECTIVE FERGUSON laid an impatient finger on the bell of the front
door of the Hale residence and, removing his hat, fanned himself
vigorously. Coroner Penfield’s message had been imperative and, the
Headquarters’ car having been out on an errand, he had commandeered
a “bike” which a patrolman had left in the outer hallway, and had
pedaled uptown as rapidly as possible. The unwonted exertion, as well
as his intense curiosity, had both served to excite him. What untoward
circumstances had required his immediate presence at three in the
morning at the home of Robert Hale, eminent scientist and respected
citizen of the National Capital?

The detective’s wonderment grew as the front door flew back and he
stepped over its threshold into the semidarkness of the large central
hall of the house. The stillness was broken by a low-voiced direction,
and Ferguson, peering around, saw a man, his presence partly concealed
behind the open front door, watching him. The man shut the door with
such care that it made no sound.

“Come this way,” he repeated, and Ferguson, with an instinctive bow,
realized he was addressed by a member of the household and not a
servant. Checking his impulse to ask questions, the detective followed
his guide across the hall and into a brilliantly lighted room. The
sudden transition from semidarkness caused Ferguson to blink owlishly,
and he paused abruptly on hearing the faint click of the folding doors,
through which they had entered, being closed behind them.

“Coroner Penfield is over there,” stated his guide, and Ferguson, grown
more accustomed to the light, looked in the direction indicated just
as Penfield rose from his stooping position and turned toward him. The
coroner’s expression changed at sight of the detective and he beckoned
him to approach. An instant later and Ferguson was staring down at the
figure of a man lying partly turned upon his back. Penfield pointed to
the small wound over the heart and to the ashen cheeks and staring eyes.

“Dead,” he said, tersely. “Stabbed.”

Ferguson whistled low, shot one questioning look at the coroner, and
then turned his attention to the dead man and the room. With minute
care he examined the body and then scanned the library. There was no
indication of a struggle having taken place, no chairs or tables were
overturned. Ferguson paused in perplexity--the orderly appearance of
the room surprised him; his eyes ran up and down the book-lined walls,
over the handsome curtains drawn across the deep window alcoves, and
the drawn portières--the furnishing of the library was a key to the
wealth and good taste of its owner, but as the background for the scene
of a tragedy it failed lamentably to give any clew to it or answer his
yet unasked questions.

“Well, doctor,” he turned to the coroner, “who’s the dead man and who
stabbed him?”

Instead of replying, Penfield addressed the third man in the library
who, since admitting the detective, had remained a silent witness of
their investigations.

“Major Richards,” he began, “kindly repeat just what you told me on
my arrival,” and seating himself at a convenient table, he drew out a
fountain pen and a memorandum pad. “Major Joseph Richards,” he added by
way of explanation, “is Mr. Hale’s son-in-law, Ferguson.”

Richards acknowledged the detective’s jerky bow at mention of his name
with a grave inclination of his head.

“The information I can give you is meager,” he stated, and Ferguson,
sensitive to first impressions, grew conscious of an undercurrent of
agitation admirably controlled by Richards’ deliberation of speech;
only a longer acquaintance would tell whether such was characteristic
of him. “I returned from the club about twenty minutes past one, found
my wife”--his hesitation was almost imperceptible--“indisposed, and on
coming in here later to look for a bottle of bromide which she had left
on the library table, I discovered”--

He stopped, and an eloquent gesture completed his sentence.

“You found the room occupied,” supplemented the coroner practically.
“Was the man dead or alive?” and the look he shot at Richards under his
shaggy brows was penetrating.

“The man was dead.” Richards’ eyelids flickered somewhat. “At least I
judged so from my superficial knowledge of medical matters. I certainly
did not kill him.”

Penfield let pass a certain flippant hardness which had crept into
Richards’ manner, and Ferguson, who had worked with the coroner in
many criminal cases, followed his cue.

“What was your next action, Major Richards?” Penfield inquired.

“I returned to my wife and gave her the medicine, then slipped
downstairs and called you up,” was the concise reply. “You came and
instructed me to send for Detective Ferguson, and after doing so, I
awaited his arrival and brought him here.”

“Did you inform your wife of your gruesome discovery in the library?”
inquired Penfield.

“I did not.”

“Why not?”

“My wife was already in a highly nervous state, and I feared she would
become ill if further excited,” Richards explained.

Penfield frowned at his note pad. “What had made her nervous?”

“A motor accident in the early afternoon,” quietly. “Her electric was
run into by a taxicab, and while no one was hurt, she suffered from
fright and shock.”

“Too bad,” commented Penfield, his manner somewhat sympathetic, and
would have added more, but Detective Ferguson, tired of the rôle of
listener, broke in brusquely.

“Who is the dead man, Major Richards?” he demanded.

“I do not know.” The low-spoken answer was firm and Richards’ gaze did
not waver before their stares. The detective was the first to look away.

“I see, a case of ordinary burglary,” he said, moving to the dead man.
“He’s wearing a dark suit, good quality cloth, however, and rubber
heeled shoes.” He transferred his gaze to the safe, only partly visible
from where he stood owing to the position of a large, tufted lounging
chair. “Ah,” striding over to it, he laid his hand on the levers and
the door swung open without resistance. “It’s unlocked; evidently the
burglar got it open before--” He checked his hasty speech and faced
Richards who had watched his rapid movements with interest. “Who owns
this safe?”

“Mr. Robert Hale.”

“Is it usually left unlocked?”

“I believe not.”

“You believe not”--the detective caught him up quickly. “Are you not
familiar with Mr. Hale’s habits?”

“No,” regarding him steadily. “My wife and I returned from our wedding
journey only two weeks ago. We are at present the guests of her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hale. During our visit I have not,” with
quiet emphasis, “familiarized myself, as you put it, with Mr. Hale’s
habits, but I once overheard him tell his wife that he never left the
safe unlocked.”

Ferguson stooped down and examined the safe with careful attention.

“The lock’s not been forced,” he muttered. “It looks like the job of an
expert safe cracker, or”--with an upward glance at Richards--“some one
familiar with the combination.”

“The Rogues’ Gallery will aid in identifying the dead man if he is a
‘regular,’” broke in Coroner Penfield. “But who killed the burglar?” He
looked across at Richards. “Who is in this house besides you and your
wife?”

“Mr. and Mrs. Hale have residing with them, besides my wife and myself,
Mr. Hale’s younger brother, John Hale,” Richards answered. “There are a
number of servants who also sleep in the house.”

Penfield consulted his note pad. “Did you go for Mr. Hale or his
brother on finding the dead man?” he questioned.

“Mrs. Hale and her brother-in-law are at a reception given by the
French Ambassador and his wife,” responded Richards. “They have not
yet returned.”

“And Mr. Robert Hale--?”

“Is ill in bed,” Richards perched himself on the arm of a chair. “When
I rushed upstairs with the medicine for my wife I went first to Mr.
Hale’s bedroom and, on finding him asleep, withdrew as quietly as
possible.”

“Didn’t you summon the servants?” asked Penfield.

“I did not.” Observing the look of surprise on their faces, he added,
“The servants are women. I did not wish to terrify them with this
sight,” and he waved his hand in the direction of the dead man.

Penfield reflected a moment, and in the brief interval Ferguson took
mental note of Major Richards’ fine physique and strongly molded
features. He did not look the man to lose his head in an emergency; on
the contrary, his self-possession and poise made a favorable impression
on both the men watching him so intently. Richards was about to speak
again when Penfield held up his hand.

“Just a moment,” he cautioned. “Let me get this straight. You reached
this house about twenty minutes after one this morning; Mrs. Hale and
her brother-in-law are still at the French Embassy reception, leaving
at home Mr. Hale, ill in bed, your wife, and the female servants. An
unidentified man enters the house in your absence and upon your return
you find him dead in the library. Did you hear voices or retreating
footsteps when you came in the front door?”

“No.”

“Did you meet any one when on your way to your wife’s room?”

“No.” Richards’ eyes did not falter in their direct gaze at the
coroner. He confined his replies to monosyllables.

“Strange!” Penfield walked back and stood looking down at the dead
man. “Very strange. I have made only a superficial examination,
Major Richards, but I’ll stake my reputation that that wound was
not self-inflicted. The man was stabbed”--he paused and his voice
deepened--“murdered.”

The lines in Richards’ face showed more plainly as he set his square
jaw at a determined angle. “The killing of a burglar is generally
considered justifiable homicide,” he said sternly. “It is one’s right
to protect one’s property from midnight marauders.”

“Who protected Mr. Hale’s home in this instance?” demanded Ferguson.

“I cannot tell you that,” responded Richards. “But, Mr. Coroner, until
you know further details of how this man came to his death, you cannot
proclaim it a murder committed by an inmate of this household.”

“I proclaim nothing,” denied Penfield. “On the contrary, I am first
most anxious to question the servants, Mr. Hale, and your wife--the
only people, according to your statement, at home when this man was
killed--and find out if possible what transpired here in your absence.”

“You cannot do that now,” interposed Richards hastily. “Mr. Hale and my
wife are not in condition to be interviewed at this hour--later in the
day, perhaps”--Ferguson gave a gesture of dissent.

“And in the meantime,” he interposed harshly, “the murderer will slip
through our fingers, and every clew grow cold.”

“Not necessarily,” replied Richards warmly. “You are at liberty to
examine this floor and the basement at the present time, only I must
insist that you do not disturb either my wife or Mr. Hale.”

“Very well, sir.” Ferguson turned toward the folding doors leading to
the central hall. “Where are the servants’ bedrooms?”

“On the third floor.” At the words the detective vanished.

Richards rose from his perch on the chair arm and paced slowly up and
down the library. Penfield, paying no attention to his movements, knelt
down by the dead man and with infinite care went through his pockets.
His search produced some loose change, a bill-folder containing nearly
a hundred dollars, and a bunch of keys.

“Not much help for identification purposes,” he remarked dryly, as
Richards halted by his side. “He was a handsome fellow; women rave over
that type of beauty in a man. He looks a gentleman--high-bred, and all
that.”

“He could not have been in destitute circumstances,” commented
Richards, pointing to the Treasury bills.

“Hm--yes,” Penfield looked thoughtful. “It might be that he rifled this
money from Mr. Hale’s safe.” He wheeled suddenly on Richards. “What did
Mr. Hale keep in his safe?”

“You will have to ask Mr. Hale,” answered Richards composedly. “I am
ignorant of his affairs.”

Penfield stroked his chin slowly; Richards as a source of information
was a disappointment. Should he not insist upon seeing Mr. Hale,
illness or no illness, unconventional hour or not? Valuable time was
slipping away and he was no nearer vital information than at the moment
of his arrival--over an hour had elapsed since receiving his hasty
summons. Penfield stood up.

“By the way, Major,” he began, “as you are a stranger in Washington and
did not ask the advice of others”--with a quick side-long scrutiny of
which Richards appeared unaware--“how did it happen that you called me
on the telephone first and not the police?”

For answer Richards strode over to the table near the fireplace and,
picking up the evening newspaper which lay spread across it, pointed to
a column of news bearing display type.

“I had been reading earlier in the evening this account of the Fuller
inquest,” he explained. “Your name is given, Coroner Penfield, and it
also stated that the body of the dead woman could not be moved until
you had arrived on the scene; therefore,” calmly, “I judged that you
would be of more immediate aid than the police. It was a simple matter
to find your number in the telephone directory.”

“True.” Penfield considered a moment, then moved restlessly over to
the safe. Without removing the contents of its compartments he took
careful note of such papers and objects as came within his view. He was
still gazing steadily at them when the portières before the dining room
parted and Ferguson stepped again into the room.

“Every window on this floor and the basement is locked on the inside,”
he announced. “And I also examined those on the landings of the stairs
and the hall of the second floor.”

“You went upstairs?” Richards moved toward him, his jaw set at an angry
angle. “After what I told you?”

“Yes.” There was open defiance in the detective’s manner. “I looked
only in the rooms where the doors were open,” he turned and addressed
Penfield. “So far as I could discover, there is no trace of the
burglar’s having gained entrance through forcing a window or door.”

“No trace of any one’s lurking downstairs?” demanded Penfield.

“None.”

“Found any weapon?”

“No.” Ferguson’s tone was glum. His gaze, shifting about the room,
happened to light on Richards and he saw him start and stiffen in a
listening attitude.

Ferguson’s eyes brightened, and he checked further speech. Suddenly he
caught the sound of a soft footfall and, as Richards started forward,
he interposed his bulky form between him and the folding doors as they
were pushed apart and Judith Richards stepped into the library. With a
shove which sent the detective sprawling, Richards gained his wife’s
side.

“Why have you come down, dearest?” he asked tenderly, bending his head
until his mouth almost touched her ear.

She shook her head, as her hand crept into his and leaned her weight on
his protecting arm.

“I came down to find,” she commenced, and her soft voice, though
low-pitched, reached the two listening men, then she stopped in fright
as, moving slightly forward, she caught a glimpse over Richards’
shoulder of Penfield regarding her. “Joe--who is that?”

“Ah, eh--” Richards stammered, then caught himself up. “It is Mr.
Penfield, dearest.” She raised her eyes and regarded him closely, and
more slowly he repeated, “Dr. Penfield.”

She shook her head in bewilderment, and drew her silk wrapper more
closely about her; the movement brought into view the large sewing bag
suspended by its cord from her wrist.

“I came down to find,” she commenced again----

“I know,” broke in Ferguson from his seat on the floor where his
encounter with Richards’ muscular figure had landed him. His tumble had
disarranged the rug and under its lifted folds he had caught the gleam
of light on metal. With impetuous fingers he drew out a pair of long
steel shears and held them aloft. “You left a dead man here and came
back to find your bloodstained shears.”

An oath ripped from Richards and he made a step forward, but Judith’s
clinging hand detained him. She reeled against him as she caught sight
of the shears, and he held her closely; his voice, though low, vibrated
with passion.

“You--Ferguson!” he gasped.

“Stop!” commanded the detective. “I am not interested in your
statements, Major Richards; let your wife answer my last remark.”

“Answer!” Richards choked; then spoke more clearly. “You ---- fool! My
wife has not heard a word you said--she is stone deaf.”

Ferguson and Coroner Penfield stared dumfounded at husband and wife.
The latter was the first to break the strained silence.

“I am sorry, gentlemen,” she said, and her deprecating look, as well
as charming voice, conveyed an apology, “I cannot understand what you
are saying.” She raised her eyes and gazed perplexedly at her husband.
“Joe, I came down to get my ear trumpet.”

Penfield recovered from his surprise. “It is here, madam,” he exclaimed
and hurrying to the safe picked up the instrument from one of the
compartments and handed it to Judith. With quick deft fingers she
adjusted it to her ear and then Ferguson addressed her.

“Now, madam, perhaps you will explain--don’t interfere, Major
Richards--I must have an explanation--”

“And so must I.” The interruption came in an unexpected quarter, and
both Penfield and the detective wheeled toward the hall door. “What is
the meaning of this scene in my house, gentlemen?” Mrs. Hale, tossing
her ermine cape on the nearest chair, advanced to the little group,
followed by her brother-in-law, John Hale.

Penfield spoke before the others.

“A crime has been committed here to-night, madam, in your absence,” he
began.

“A crime?” She interrupted in her turn, her eyes leaving her daughter’s
blanched face for the first time. “A crime--?”

“Yes; a burglar forced an entrance and was murdered----”

“A burglar!” John Hale pushed past his sister-in-law to the center of
the room. His manner was rough and domineering. “What the devil are you
talking about?”

Without answering, Ferguson wheeled about and, walking over to the
motionless figure on the floor, signed to Hale to approach.

“Here’s the burglar--and he’s dead,” he announced concisely, then
held up the shears, “and here’s the weapon--from a workbag,” casting
a significant glance at the bag still suspended from Judith’s icy
fingers. Richards’ furious retort was checked by a cry of horror from
John Hale.

With staring eyes and ghastly face he gazed down at the dead man.

“A burglar!” he cried. “Austin--my son!” and pitched headlong to the
floor.




CHAPTER III

THEORIES


MRS. HALE rattled her coffee cups and looked over the top of her silver
urn at Joe Richards; he had asked for a third cup of coffee and he
drank it clear. Mrs. Hale was shocked. But the remonstrance on the tip
of her tongue died unspoken as she studied his clear-cut profile and
observed the dogged set to his determined jaw. She took silent note of
his unusual pallor, the dark circles under his eyes, and his continued
silence. Mrs. Hale felt resentful; she was of a talkative disposition
and had welcomed an opportunity to discuss the mystery surrounding
Austin Hale’s death with her handsome son-in-law, but instead of
following her lead he had answered in monosyllables. A less persistent
woman would have given up the attempt.

“Did you ask Judith if she saw a light in Austin’s bedroom?” she
inquired, for at least the sixth time. “Your suite of rooms is
directly under his, poor boy,” and she sought refuge behind her damp
handkerchief. She emerged a moment later to add, “Austin must have gone
to his room, for his overcoat and suit case were there when I went
upstairs after that distressing scene in the library--dear me, was it
only this morning?”

“It was.” Richards’ tone was grim and did not invite further remarks.
For a moment there was silence.

“You haven’t answered my question, my dear boy,” prompted Mrs. Hale
plaintively, “nor have you touched your breakfast!” in shocked surprise
as Anna, the waitress, removed his plate.

“I--I cannot eat.” With an effort Richards suppressed a grimace at
sight of the untasted eggs and bacon. “I have no appetite. Dear Mrs.
Hale, do not distress yourself on my account.”

Mrs. Hale regarded him in suspicious silence; she was not quite certain
what prompted his sudden change of manner. Was he poking fun at her?
But as she met his unwavering gaze she dismissed the idea as unworthy,
and returned valiantly to the task of eliciting information.

“What questions _did_ you ask Judith?” she demanded.

“I have not questioned Judith.” Richards drew out his cigarette case.
“May I smoke?” And hardly waiting for her permission, he added,
“Judith, as you know, does not feel well and is breakfasting in her
boudoir. I do not believe,”--Richards paused and his speech gained
added deliberation--“I do not believe Judith can supply any information
as to the events of last night, nor any clew to the unfortunate murder
of her cousin. Her deafness----”

“I know,” broke in Mrs. Hale hastily--any allusion to Judith’s
infirmity cut her mother love. “I cannot think why, when Austin reached
home, he did not at once tell Judith that he was in the house--he knew
she could not _hear_ him enter. It is most surprising!” and Mrs. Hale
shook a puzzled head.

Richards considered her thoughtfully. “Have you found out how and when
Austin returned last night?” he asked.

“Of course.” Mrs. Hale brightened; Richards was at last expanding
to the extent of asking questions--what had made him so morose? “I
interviewed the servants immediately after leaving the library.” She
did not add that she had scurried upstairs in dire haste so as to be
the first person to go to their rooms and personally question each and
every one--thereby upsetting Detective Ferguson’s well-laid plans, and
depriving the servants of any sleep during the remainder of the night.
“Not one of them,” impressively, “knew of his return.”

“Then how did he get in?” persisted Richards.

“With his latchkey, of course,” somewhat surprised by Richards’ manner.
“Oh, I forgot, you did not know Austin, and perhaps we have not
mentioned that he has always made his home with us since his adoption.”

“His what?” Richards’ voice rose in astonishment; and Mrs. Hale’s
complacent smile reflected her gratification; she had at last aroused
Richards’ interest. “Do you mean--was he not John Hale’s son?”

“No, only his stepson,” she explained. “John married a widow, Cora
Price, much older than himself, when he was but twenty-four--in fact
just out of college. John is only forty-seven now, ten years my
husband’s junior. Dear me, where was I?” and Mrs. Hale pulled up short,
conscious that she had wandered from the point.

“You were speaking of Austin’s adoption,” Richards reminded her gently.

“Oh, yes. Cora had a boy by her first husband, and when she died within
the year of their marriage, she left him, then about five years of
age, to John to bring up, and he legally adopted him, giving him our
name. John,” she added, “is very kind-hearted, if somewhat hasty in his
actions.”

Reminded of his cigarette by his burned fingers, Richards dropped the
stub in his coffee cup and started to light another just as Maud, the
parlor maid, appeared in the dining room.

“Detective Ferguson has called to see Mr. John,” she announced,
addressing Mrs. Hale. “Do you know when he will return, ma’am?”

“I do not,” Mrs. Hale pushed back her chair and rose with alacrity.
“Where is the detective?”

“In the library, ma’am.”

“Show him into the drawing-room,” Mrs. Hale directed, and not giving
Richards an opportunity to pull back the portières before the entrance
to the large room which adjoined the dining room on the west, she swept
majestically away.

“Maud!” The parlor maid halted as Richards’ low voice reached her. “Did
my wife eat her breakfast?”

“Yes, sir, a little.” Maud’s sympathetic smile blossomed forth as she
caught Richards’ pleased expression. She lingered before speeding
on her errand to the waiting detective. “Miss Judith has brightened
considerable since I gave her Miss Polly’s answer.”

Richards’ strong hand caressed his clean-shaven chin. “And what was the
answer?” he questioned. “Verbal?”

“Oh, yes, sir; James brought back word that Miss Polly would be right
over, and so I told Miss Judith.”

“Thank you, Maud,” and the parlor maid felt rewarded by Richards’
charming smile.

Richards had become a favorite with the servants, who idolized “Miss
Judith,” as they still persisted in calling her. They had awaited
with interest the arrival of the bride and groom two weeks before,
an interest intensified by the storm which had arisen on receipt of
Judith’s cablegram to her father telling of her marriage in far-away
Japan to Joseph Richards.

Robert Hale had made no attempt to conceal or modify his fury while
Mrs. Hale, deeply hurt by what she termed her “unfilial conduct,”
had promptly made the best of the situation and endeavored to
persuade her husband to accept the inevitable and cable Judith their
forgiveness. Hale, anxious to return to his scientific experiments,
finally succumbed to her arguments, backed up by those of his brother
John, and, going a step further than his wife had expected, added an
invitation to return to the paternal roof.

Richards had borne himself well under the inspection of his wife’s
family, and Hale had grudgingly admitted to his wife that perhaps he
wasn’t such a bad lot after all, to which Mrs. Hale, who had been won
by Richards’ charm of manner and handsome presence, had indignantly
responded that Judith had been most fortunate in her selection of a
husband. Hale’s only response had been a sardonic grin.

As the parlor maid hurried down the hall, Richards paused in thought;
Mrs. Hale had not invited him to go with her to the drawing-room,
but--with bent head he meditatively paced up and down, his steps
involuntarily carrying him nearer and nearer the portières; as he
paused irresolutely before them, Mrs. Hale’s voice came to him clearly.

“Detective Ferguson, I must insist on an answer to my question.”

Richards jerked the portières aside and without ceremony entered the
drawing-room. Ferguson turned at sound of his footsteps and bowed
to him before answering Mrs. Hale who was regarding him with fixed
attention.

“I can’t tell you anything, Mrs. Hale,” he protested. “I came here to
get information.”

“What information?” Mrs. Hale had frowned at sight of Richards, then,
her momentary displeasure gone, addressed herself to the detective. She
enjoyed the rôle of inquisitor.

“I wanted to talk with Mr. John Hale.”

“He is out.”

“So your maid said.” Ferguson fingered the table ornaments with
restless fingers; he was getting nowhere and time was slipping away.
“Where’s he gone?”

Richards answered the question. “To the cemetery, I understood him to
say.” He glanced at his watch. “Mr. Hale should be back in a very short
time.”

“Then I’ll wait, Major,” and Ferguson, who had secretly resented Mrs.
Hale’s discourtesy in not asking him to be seated, jerked forward a
chair and threw himself into it. “Can I see your husband, madam?”

“You cannot.” Mrs. Hale rapped out the reply, and Richards shot a quick
look of inquiry in her direction. “My husband is under Dr. McLane’s
care, and until the doctor gives permission he cannot be interviewed.”

“Dr. McLane,” repeated Ferguson, and his face brightened. “The doctor
came in just before I did. Will you please send him word that I would
like to see him before he leaves?”

Mrs. Hale considered for a brief second, then turned to Richards who
was standing near the mantel. “Please touch the bell for Maud,” and as
he did so, she again spoke to Ferguson.

“Why do you desire to see my husband?” she asked, and her manner had
regained its usual suavity.

“To question him regarding the occurrences of last night,” answered
Ferguson. “Have you already done so?” and he eyed her keenly.

Mrs. Hale shook her head, but before she could otherwise reply, Maud
came into the room.

“Ask Dr. McLane to come here before he leaves,” she directed. “Tell
him that Detective Ferguson and I both wish to see him,” and Maud
vanished. Mrs. Hale settled herself back in her chair and regarded
Ferguson attentively. There was a bull-dog air about the detective that
warned her he was not to be trifled with. In spite of her haphazard
characteristics and total lack of tact, she recognized determination in
the opposite sex, though never giving in to her own.

“What did you ask me, Mr. Ferguson?” she inquired sweetly.

“Have you told your husband of the death of Austin Hale?” Ferguson put
the direct question with quiet emphasis, and she answered it in kind.

“I have not,” adding before he could speak, “My husband was asleep when
I went to our rooms after my interview with you this morning, and when
he awoke two hours ago he complained of feeling feverish, so I forbore
breaking the news to him until after Dr. McLane’s visit.”

Ferguson scrutinized her narrowly; he was not prepossessed in her
favor and from the little he had seen of her wondered that she should
have refrained from telling her husband of the tragedy of the early
morning, for he judged her to be the type of woman who must talk
at all costs. That she had not told her husband implied---- The
detective’s cogitations were interrupted by the entrance of John Hale
and a companion whom Ferguson instantly recognized from the frequent
publication of his photograph in the local papers.

Francis Latimer, senior member of the firm of Latimer and House,
stockbrokers, was one of the popular bachelors of Washington. Inclined
to embonpoint, of medium height, a little bald, and wearing round, horn
spectacles, he resembled in his fastidiousness of dress and deportment
a Pickwick in modern attire. At the moment his face, generally round
and rosy with an ever present smile, wore an unusual seriousness of
expression as he greeted Mrs. Hale and Richards. He glanced inquiringly
at Ferguson and returned that official’s bow with a courteous
inclination of his head.

“Detective Ferguson has been waiting to see you, John,” explained Mrs.
Hale, as the men stood for a second in silence.

Ferguson stepped forward. “You told me to call at ten o’clock, Mr.
Hale,” he reminded him, and John nodded.

“So I did,” he acknowledged. “Sorry to have kept you waiting, but I
had to see the superintendent of the cemetery,” he stopped and cleared
his voice. “Latimer and I have just returned from making arrangements
for the funeral services. Have you,” again a slight huskiness in his
usually clear voice slurred his words, “have you heard, Ferguson, the
result of the autopsy?”

“No, Mr. Hale, but it was held----” Ferguson looked over his shoulder
on hearing footsteps behind him and saw Leonard McLane walk between the
portières of the folding doors, held back by the attentive waitress,
Anna.

“Dr. McLane,”--the detective gave no one an opportunity to greet
the busy surgeon--“you were present with Coroner Penfield at the
post-mortem examination of young Hale, were you not?”

“Yes.” McLane took the hand Mrs. Hale extended to him and gave it a
reassuring squeeze; he judged from her unaccustomed pallor that she was
much upset. “Yes, well?” and he looked inquiringly at the detective.

“Tell us the result, doctor,” urged Ferguson, and added as McLane
hesitated, “You will be betraying no confidences, because the coroner
telephoned me to stop and see him about it when I leave here.”

“Go ahead, McLane,” broke in John Hale. “I am entitled to know what
caused Austin’s death--don’t keep me in suspense any longer,” and
McLane, looking at him closely, saw that tiny beads of sweat had
gathered on Hale’s forehead.

John Hale, who measured six feet two in his stocking feet, presented
a striking contrast to Frank Latimer as they stood side by side,
a contrast Washington society had laughed at and grown accustomed
to. Their Damon and Pythias friendship had commenced when they were
students at Harvard University and, continued through the years of
their separation when John Hale was in Mexico, was cemented again
upon the latter’s return to make his home permanently in the National
Capital. Hale was the elder by two years. His healthy out-of-door life
showed in the breadth of his shoulders and deep chest, and he was
seldom credited with being forty-seven years of age. For the first time
McLane became aware of the crow’s-feet discernible under his eyes as
John Hale moved nearer him.

“Coroner Penfield’s examination,” McLane stated, “proved that Austin
died as the result of a wound in the chest. The weapon penetrated the
right ventricle of the heart, and death was due to internal hemorrhage.”

A heavy sob broke from Mrs. Hale. “Oh, poor Austin!” she lamented. “Oh,
why did he do so mad an act?”

“Explain your meaning, madam,” insisted Ferguson quickly, and held up a
cautioning hand as John Hale was about to interrupt her.

“Why, kill himself,” asserted Mrs. Hale. “To commit suicide _is_ a mad
act,” she added a trifle defiantly and gazed at her silent companions.

“Was the wound self-inflicted, doctor?” questioned Ferguson, and Mrs.
Hale grew conscious of the strained attention of her companions as they
waited in silence for McLane’s answer.

The surgeon answered with a question.

“Was any weapon found by the body?”

Ferguson took from his pocket a package wrapped in oilskin. Removing
the wrapping, he exhibited a pair of long slender shears. One blade was
covered with bloodstains.

“These shears were lying near the body,” he announced.

“And under a rug,” Richards broke his long silence. “I distinctly
recall seeing you pick them up, Ferguson, and remember the position
they were in when you found them.”

“They were not under a rug,” retorted Ferguson. “The edge of the rug
was turned back and covered them. Don’t touch the steel, sir,”--as
Richards stepped to his side and studied the shears--“I’ve had
impressions made for possible finger marks. You haven’t answered my
question, doctor; was it suicide?”

“Possibly.”

“But not probably?” quickly.

“Have a care, Ferguson.” Richards spoke with sternness. “Don’t impute
a meaning to Dr. McLane’s words; let him put his own construction on
them.” Abruptly he turned to the surgeon. “Could the wound have been
accidentally inflicted?”

McLane stared at him. “I don’t quite catch your meaning?”

“Could Austin have tripped or stumbled and fallen on the shears?”

“He could have tripped or stumbled, certainly; but if he had fallen
on the shears both blades would have penetrated his chest--” McLane
pointed to them. “Only one blade is bloodstained.”

“Quite sure they are bloodstains and not rust?” As he put the question,
Richards again scrutinized the shears.

Ferguson smiled skeptically. “The stains have already been subjected to
chemical tests,” he said. “It is human blood. Another thing, Major, if
Austin Hale fell on these shears and, improbable as it may seem, was
stabbed by only one blade, that blade would have remained in the wound,
would it not, doctor?”

“Yes.”

“Then we can dismiss the theory of accidental death,” argued Ferguson,
“and there remain homicide or suicide. Come, doctor, could Austin have
pulled out the shears’ blade after stabbing himself?”

McLane shook his head dubiously. “Death resulted almost
instantaneously,” he answered.

Richards, who had thrust his hands into his trousers’ pockets, clenched
them until the nails dug into the flesh, while Detective Ferguson, with
a covert smile, rolled up the shears once again in the piece of oilskin
and replaced them in his pocket.

“Suicide is then out of the question,” he commented gravely. “It leaves
us face to face with homicide. What motive inspired Austin Hale’s
murder, gentlemen?”

A low moan escaped Mrs. Hale. “There _could_ be no motive,” she
stammered. “Austin had no enemies, and this was his home; he was
surrounded only with relatives----”

“And he was murdered,” Ferguson’s lips parted in a dangerous smile, as
he swung on John Hale. “Come, sir, have you no facts to disclose, no
aid to offer in tracking down your son’s murder?”

John Hale regarded him for a moment in grim silence.

“I give you a free hand to follow every clew,” he affirmed, “and offer
a reward of five thousand dollars for the apprehension and conviction
of his murderer.”

Detective Ferguson buttoned his coat and picked up his hat which he had
brought with him into the drawing-room; then he turned to McLane.

“Can I see your patient, Mr. Robert Hale?” he asked.

“Not now.” McLane addressed Mrs. Hale. “I have given your husband a
sedative,” he said. “Keep all excitement from him when he awakens; I
will call later.”

“But see here, doctor,” objected Ferguson, “I must interview Mr. Hale,”
and in his earnestness he laid a persuasive hand on the surgeon’s coat
sleeve.

“So you can, shortly,” answered McLane. “Come with me, Ferguson, I’ll
take you to the coroner’s,” and there was that about McLane which
deterred the detective from pressing the point. With a bow to the
others McLane hurried away, Ferguson in his wake. Mrs. Hale gazed in
dead silence at her three companions, then found relief in tears.

“Hush, Agatha,” exclaimed her brother-in-law, as her sobs grew in
volume. “Calm yourself.”

John Hale’s strong voice carried some comfort, and she looked up a few
minutes later as the gong over the front door rang loudly. Through her
tear-dimmed eyes she had a fleeting glimpse of a familiar, slender
figure hurrying past the portières and through the central hall to the
circular staircase. Mrs. Hale’s tears burst out afresh.

“Oh!” she gasped. “I just can’t break the news of Austin’s death to
Polly Davis--they were engaged----”

“You don’t know what you are talking about!” John Hale spoke with rough
vehemence. “Polly and Austin were not engaged,” and turning on his heel
he stamped his way out of the drawing-room.

Mrs. Hale gazed in bewilderment at Richards and Latimer; the former
answered her unspoken question.

“Weren’t you aware of the situation?” he asked, and there was mockery
in his tone. “John Hale and Austin, his stepson, were both madly in
love with Polly--your husband’s secretary.”




CHAPTER IV

LOST: A MEMORANDUM


ANNA, the waitress, took one more comprehensive look around the
prettily furnished boudoir to make sure that she had not overlooked the
sugar bowl; it was certainly nowhere in sight. Anna paused on her way
to the door leading to Judith’s bedroom, turned back and, picking up
the breakfast tray, departed to her domain below stairs.

Judith, totally unaware that she had disturbed her mother’s excellent
waitress by walking off in a moment of absent-mindedness with the
sugar bowl, saw reflected in her long cheval glass the closing of the
boudoir door, and crossing her bedroom, made certain, by a peep inside,
that Anna had gone. With a quick turn of her wrist she shut the door
and locked it. The suite which she and her husband occupied consisted
of three rooms, the boudoir, their bedroom, and beyond that a large
dressing room and bath. There was but one entrance to the suite--by way
of the boudoir, which rendered their quarters absolutely private.

Judith perched herself on one of the twin beds, and, feeling underneath
her pillow, pulled out a gold locket from which dangled the broken link
of a gold chain. There was nothing extraordinary in the appearance of
the locket, nothing to distinguish it from many other such ornaments,
yet it held Judith’s gaze with the power of a snake-charmer. Twice she
looked away from it, twice dropped it under the folds of the tossed
back bedclothes, only to pick it up each time and tip it this way and
that in the pink palm of her hand. Three times she crooked her fingers
over the spring, but the pressure needed to open the locket was not
forthcoming.

Suddenly Judith raised her eyes and scanned the bedroom--the
glass-topped dressing table with its tortoise-shell, gold-initialed
toilet set; the tall chiffonnier on which lay her husband’s military
hair brushes and a framed photograph of Judith; the _chaise longue_
with its numerous soft pillows, the comfortable chairs--Judith passed
them over with scant attention, and gazed at the pictures on the walls,
the draperies over the bow window and its broad seat, which added much
to the attractiveness of her room, and lastly at a small leather box
resembling a Kodak. The box was perched precariously near the edge of
the mantel shelf. Judith walked over to it, jerked up the clasps and
lifted the lid. She pushed aside the contents of the box and placed the
locket underneath several coils of wire, then closing the box, set it
behind the mantel clock. An inspection of the dial showed her that the
hour hand was about to register ten o’clock.

The next moment Judith was seated before her dressing table and
unbraiding her hair. It fell in a shower about her shoulders, the
winter sunshine picking out the hidden strains of gold in its rich
chestnut. A deep, deep sigh escaped Judith as she stared at her
reflection in the mirror. It was a very lovely face that confronted
her, not one to call forth a sigh from the observer. The delicately
arched eyebrows, the tender, sensitive mouth, the brilliancy of the
deep blue eyes--but enhanced by the shadows underneath them,--the long
lashes, and the small shapely head all combined to win for Judith the
title of “belle” when introduced three years before to Washington
society.

Judith’s popularity had been a matter of unbounded gratification to her
mother, whose ambition for a titled son-in-law was thereby encouraged
and dinned into her husband’s ears, to his intense disgust, but in
spite of his gruff reception of her suggestions, Robert Hale had seen
to it that only the most eligible bachelors were invited to their home.
Judith had signally failed to encourage any one of her many attentive
cavaliers, and when taken to task by her mother, had responded that no
man should be handicapped by a deaf wife and that she did not intend to
marry; a statement which, in its quiet determination, had staggered her
mother.

Judith had thrown herself heart and soul into war work, and though
not accepted for service overseas on account of her deafness, she had
won, through her efficiency and knowledge of languages, a position in
the Department of State carrying great responsibilities, and she had
retired from it, after the Armistice, with the commendation of the
Department’s highest officials.

The hard work, the long hours, and the close confinement indoors to one
accustomed, as Judith had been, to a life in the open, had resulted
in a nervous collapse, and Doctor McLane, their family physician, had
advised a complete change of environment. The medical dictum had come
on the heels of a letter from the United States Consul at Tokio and his
wife, asking Judith to make them a long promised visit, and within
forty-eight hours all details of her trip across the continent with
friends returning to their home in San Francisco after two years’ war
work in Washington, had been arranged, and a cable was sent to Mr.
and Mrs. Noyes in Tokio, notifying them to expect Judith on the next
steamer.

And in Tokio, two weeks after her arrival, Judith had met Joseph
Richards, major of the --th Regiment, invalided home from arduous
service in Siberia with the A. E. F., and bearing on his broad breast
ribbons denoting Russian, Japanese, and British decorations awarded for
valor.

Richards had received a warm welcome in the Noyes’ home, and his
hostess, a born matchmaker, was quick to observe his infatuation for
Judith, and did everything within her power to aid his courtship.

Judith strove to steel her heart to his ardent pleading, but all to no
purpose--youth called to youth in a language familiar to every age,
and in the romantic background of the Land of the Chrysanthemum they
pledged their troth. A week later they were married in the American
Consulate by a United States Navy chaplain, and Mr. and Mrs. Noyes,
looking backward over their own well-ordered wedded life, wished them
Godspeed on their road to happiness.

Happy days had followed, happier than any Judith had known, for in
spite of her brave attempt to ignore her deafness and to show only a
contented front to the world, that very deafness had built a barrier of
reserve which even Judith’s parents had never penetrated. But Richards,
whose deep love was a guide to a sympathetic understanding of her shy
and sensitive nature, gained a devotion almost akin to worship as the
days sped on, and then came the summons home.

With a faint shiver Judith straightened herself in her chair, put down
her hair brush and took up the slender wire (in shape like those worn
by telephone operators, but much lighter and narrower) attached to the
earpiece of the “globia-phone,” and slipped it over her head. It took
but a second to adjust the earpiece, and with deft fingers she dressed
her hair low on her neck and covering her ears. The style was not only
extremely becoming, but completely hid the little instrument held so
snugly against her ear. It took but a moment to complete her dressing,
and slipping the small battery of the “globia-phone” inside her belt,
she adjusted the lace jabot so that its soft folds concealed but did
not obscure the sound-gathering part of the earphone, and with one
final look in the glass to make sure that her becoming costume fitted
perfectly, she turned away just as a loud knock sounded on the boudoir
door. Judith laid her hand involuntarily on the back of her chair,
then, squaring her shoulders, she walked across the room and unlocked
the door and faced her father’s secretary.

“Polly!” The ejaculation was low-spoken and Judith cast one searching
look about the boudoir before pulling the girl inside her bedroom and
closing the door. “Have you just come?”

“Yes, I came right up here.” Polly Davis, conscious that her knees
were treacherously weak, sank into the nearest chair, and Judith, in
the uncompromising glare of the morning sunlight, saw in the girl’s
upturned face the haggard lines which care had brought overnight.
Judith dropped on her knees beside Polly and threw her arm protectingly
about her. They had been classmates at a fashionable private school
until the death of Polly’s father had brought retrenchment and, later,
painful economies in its wake, so that she was obliged to forsake her
lessons for a clerkship.

The change from affluence to poverty had produced no alteration in the
affection the two girls bore each other, an affection on Judith’s part
tempered with responsibility, as Polly, her junior by a few months,
came frequently to her for advice--which she seldom if ever followed.
Polly’s contact with the world had borne fruit in an embittered outlook
on life which in some degree alienated her from her former friends,
and she had turned to Judith with the heart-hunger of a nature thrown
upon itself for woman’s companionship. Polly’s dainty blond beauty and
bright vivacity had gained her lasting popularity with men, but with
her own sex she was generally classed as “catty.”

Judith was the first to speak. “Polly--what can I say?” she stammered.
“How comfort you?”

For answer the yellow head was dropped on Judith’s shoulder and dry,
tearless sobs racked her slender body.

“Hush! Hush!” exclaimed Judith, alarmed by her agony. “Polly, Polly,
remember----”

“Remember!” Polly sat up as if stabbed. “Oh, if I could only forget!”
A violent shudder shook her. Regaining her composure by degrees, she
finally straightened up. “There, the storm is over,” and she dashed her
hand across her eyes. “Never allude to this again--promise me.” She
spoke with vehemence, and Judith laid a quieting hand on hers.

“I give you my word never to speak of the subject,” she pledged.

“Not even to your husband?”

“No, not even to Joe.” Her answer, although prompt, held a note of
reluctance.

Polly’s smile was twisted. Opening her vanity box, she inspected her
face in its tiny mirror. A faint shriek escaped her.

“I’m a fright!” she ejaculated, and rising, went over to Judith’s
dressing table and proceeded to powder her nose. Drawing out a box of
rouge, Polly applied some of it to her cheeks. “There, that’s better.”
She turned briskly and looked at Judith. “Do you think your father will
discover it is not natural bloom?” she asked flippantly.

Judith’s answer was a stare; Polly’s transition from grief to pert
nonchalance was startling.

“Father is not very well,” she replied slowly. “Joe went to inquire for
him just before breakfast was announced, and Mother said he was asleep
and could not be disturbed.”

Polly contemplated herself in the mirror. “I am sorry,” she remarked,
but her tone was perfunctory and a brief silence followed. “Gracious,
it is nearly eleven o’clock. Judith, I must fly; for your father left a
pile of correspondence in the den----”

“Wait, Polly.” Judith, who had followed her across the bedroom, laid
her hand against the door. “There is a question you must answer. Were
you--did you,” she stumbled in her speech, “did you know that Austin
was to return here last night?”

The rouge on Polly’s cheeks showed up plainly against the dead
whiteness of her skin.

“I fail to see what business it is of yours if I knew or did not know
of Austin’s contemplated return,” she replied, and before Judith
guessed her intention she had slipped under her arm and bolted through
the boudoir into the hall, leaving Judith staring after her.

The thick carpet deadened Polly’s flying footsteps as she hurried to
the den, a room set aside for Robert Hale’s exclusive use. It adjoined
his bedroom, and there the scientist spent many hours going carefully
over his manuscripts and statistical research work. It was in one sense
a labor of love for, thanks to the timely death of a relative, he had
inherited a large estate which brought in its train a handsome income;
he was, therefore, not dependent upon a salaried position and could
indulge his whims and vagaries. And these same whims and vagaries had,
mingled with an unbridled temper, made the post of secretary to the
eminent scientist no sinecure. Polly Davis had secured the position
through Judith’s influence, and she had remained longer than the
majority of her predecessors, a fact which had won sarcastic comments
from Robert Hale and--nothing more.

Polly paused on reaching the middle of the den and stared at the man
seated with his back to her, bending over Robert Hale’s flat-topped
desk. With infinite care he went over paper after paper, and as he
lifted his hands Polly saw that he was wearing rubber gloves. With the
instinct which seems to warn of another’s presence, he partly turned in
his chair and gazed at the motionless figure behind him. A constrained
silence followed, which John Hale was the first to break.

“Why did you not go to Baltimore?” he asked.

Her reply was slow in coming.

“I have altered my plans,” she stated, and, crossing to her own desk,
she dropped into the revolving chair standing before it.

John Hale watched her for an instant, and not a detail of her
appearance escaped him. There was an ominous tightening of his lips,
and he lowered his gaze that she might not read its telltale message.
Without further comment he removed his gloves, rolled them into a ball
and stuffed them in his pocket. In the lengthening silence Polly’s eyes
strayed to a pile of papers and she swung the typewriter on its iron
supporting-frame, which was attached to her desk, toward her.

“Pardon me if I go on with my work.” Her voice was cold and formal.
Slowly John Hale rose to his feet, and the bigness of the man filled
the small room. Polly looked only at her typewriter.

“I am sorry I detained you.” His voice matched hers in tone and quality.

Polly raised her eyes and contemplated him. “Did you find what you were
looking for in your brother’s desk, Mr. Hale?” she inquired.

Hale’s answer was indirect. “Mr. Hale,” he repeated. “Why not--John?”

“No.”

The finality of the monosyllable brought an angry flush to John Hale’s
bronzed cheeks, and without another word he swung on his heel, only to
pause at the door and again address her.

“Austin’s funeral will take place to-morrow,” he announced, and the
next second he was gone.

Many minutes passed before Polly moved, then rising, she walked over
to Robert Hale’s desk and went feverishly through his drawers, one
question uppermost in her mind--what had John Hale been looking for?
She had about completed her self-imposed task when a voice over her
shoulder caused her to catch her breath.

“Why are you searching among my husband’s papers?” asked Mrs. Hale.

Polly swung around in Robert Hale’s comfortable chair.

“How you startled me!” she confessed, with a faint tinkling laugh, a
laugh which had irritated Mrs. Hale in the past. “Dear Mrs. Hale, how
noiselessly you move.”

“Do I?” tartly.

“I never heard you enter the room.” Polly moved back to her own desk.
“Your husband must find you a perfect treasure when you are attending
him during his illness.”

Mrs. Hale flushed and promptly forgot to utter the sympathetic
platitudes she had prepared when on her way to find Polly. Austin Hale
ever engaged to such a chit of a girl? The idea was unbelievable. And
John, her staid, solemn brother-in-law, in love with her! Mrs. Hale
snorted. Joe Richards should be given a piece of her mind for putting
such ideas in her head; she would even speak to Judith about it.

“Why were you going through my husband’s papers?” she asked, and her
manner in putting the question was anything but agreeable. “I insist
upon an answer.”

Polly’s eyes opened innocently. “Surely, Mrs. Hale, the matter is not
secret. I was looking for a memorandum which your husband left for
me. It was about so square,”--demonstrating with her fingers,--“on
yellowish paper.”

Polly, when moving her hands, dislodged a package of papers and they
fell to the floor. In stooping to pick them up, she missed seeing Mrs.
Hale’s quick start and sudden change of color. When she raised her
head, she found Mrs. Hale’s cold blue eyes were regarding her with
disconcerting intensity.

“Was John in here a moment ago?” she asked, and Polly was conscious of
flushing hotly; the question was unexpected.

“Didn’t you see him leave, Mrs. Hale?” she asked sweetly, and this time
it was Mrs. Hale who flushed. There were occasions when she actively
disliked her husband’s accomplished secretary.

“I met him in the hall,” she explained coldly. “But I was not sure
whether he had just left here or my husband’s bedroom. Please remember,
Polly, that Mr. Hale is ill and that the sound of your typewriter
carries into the next room.”

“In that case”--Polly drew her chair closer to her desk with a
businesslike air and picked up her pen--“I will write answers in long
hand to these business communications, unless you wish something
further”--and she waited in polite expectancy.

“I want nothing”--Mrs. Hale drew herself up. “Kindly make as little
noise as possible, Polly. Above all, don’t let that telephone ring,”
pointing to the instrument which stood almost at the girl’s elbow.

“I shall be as quiet as possible,” Polly promised, and Mrs. Hale,
satisfied that she had made Polly understand that she was capable of
issuing orders in her husband’s absence, walked toward the hall door.
Polly’s voice halted her as she was on the point of leaving the room.

“Is Mr. Hale very ill?” she asked.

“No, oh, no,” Mrs. Hale spoke with positiveness. “But Dr. McLane said
that he was under the effects of a sedative. I was in our bedroom a
moment ago and Robert was sound asleep. Polly,”--she hesitated and
fingered her hand bag--“if you come across a memorandum bearing my
name, be _sure_ to let me see it,” and with a whisk of her skirts she
hastened away.

Polly stared at the highly glazed surface of Robert Hale’s expensive
stationery and then at her penholder. Suddenly she pitched the latter
from her and, rising, methodically searched the entire room, taking
care that her movements made no noise.

In his comfortable four-post bed in the darkened room adjoining his
den, Robert Hale smiled to himself as he dragged the eider-down quilt
up about his ears and lay still. His daughter Judith had not inherited
his acute hearing.




CHAPTER V

MORE THEORIES


RAIN and snow followed by sleet had reduced the traffic in the streets
of the Capital City to venturesome taxicabs and occasional delivery
cars. Few Washingtonians, not required by necessity to venture out of
doors, were so unwise as to risk a fall on the slippery pavements,
and the generally gay thoroughfares of the fashionable Northwest were
deserted. Weather-forecasters had announced in the morning press that a
decade had passed since such a combination of ice and sleet had visited
the city so late in the winter.

The small procession of automobiles returning from Oak Hill Cemetery
coasted its way with care down the steep hills of Georgetown and along
the ice-covered asphalt. John Hale, the occupant of the foremost car,
pulled out his handkerchief and mopped his face, which, in spite of the
biting north wind and the zero weather, was damp with perspiration.

“Thank God!” he muttered rather than spoke. “That is over.” He turned
and scowled at his companion. “Well, Frank, haven’t you anything to
say?”

Frank Latimer, who had been studying his friend in silence, roused
himself.

“It was a trying ordeal,” he remarked gravely, “and like you, I am
relieved that the funeral is over. Poor Austin!”

John Hale winced. “Don’t!” he exclaimed. “Suppose we leave the--the
laments to my sister-in-law, Agatha.”

Latimer nodded sympathetically. “She made an exhibition of herself in
the chapel,” he acknowledged. “I had no idea that she was so attached
to Austin. In fact,”--Latimer lowered his voice to confidential
tones--“I’ve always understood that she opposed a marriage between
Judith and Austin.”

“And quite rightly,” Hale’s voice rang out sharply. “Judith is a
splendid type of young womanhood, while----” He checked his impetuous
speech. “I opposed the match, also.”

“So I recall.” Latimer offered his cigarette case to his friend. His
chubby face wore a troubled expression. “Agatha Hale is a bit of a
trial, old man; let’s forget her.”

“I wish I could,” with gloomy fervor. “Why Robert ever picked out such
a piece of contrariness I never could understand; one moment your
friend, the next against you--and emotional!” His tone spoke volumes.
“While Robert----” He smiled wryly and Latimer finished the sentence.

“Is the most unemotional of men,” he agreed. “Judith is more like you,
John, than like either of her parents.”

Hale moved uneasily and changed the conversation with some abruptness
as the car drove up to the curb and stopped before his brother’s
residence.

“I’m much obliged to you, Frank, for bringing me home,” he said,
preparing to spring out as the chauffeur opened the door. “I don’t
think I could have stood driving back in the same car with Agatha and
Judith. Won’t you come in with me?”

“I can’t, thanks; I have an appointment,” Latimer responded. “I’ll see
you later perhaps at the club. Eh, what the----”

The ejaculation was wrung from him by John Hale’s sudden clutch on his
arm and before he quite realized what was happening he found himself
propelled out of the car. Once on the sidewalk the little stockbroker
turned to his big companion in wrathful bewilderment. The explanation
John Hale offered for his precipitous action was given under his
breath, and Jackson, the chauffeur, failed to hear it as he climbed
back in his seat and, obedient to a signal from his employer, shut off
his engine.

“That damn bounder from Police Headquarters is waiting for an
interview, Frank.” John Hale indicated one of the library windows
overlooking the street where Latimer saw a man peering out from behind
the curtains. “I had entirely forgotten that Detective Ferguson
telephoned and asked me to see him this afternoon. I want you to be
present.”

The urgency of his tone silenced Latimer’s objections, and without a
word he accompanied him into the house, Anna, the waitress, holding
the front door hospitably open for them. Almost tossing his fur-lined
overcoat and hat into the servant’s arms, John Hale strode at once into
the library, and Latimer, pausing only long enough to put down his hat
and cane on the hall table, followed him, forgetting in his interest
that he had not removed his overcoat.

At the sound of their footsteps Detective Ferguson stepped away from
the window-alcove where he had been a witness of their arrival. John
Hale’s curt greeting and Latimer’s short nod caused him to redden;
he was not accustomed to such outward display of contempt, for so he
interpreted their manner.

“What can I do for you, Ferguson?” asked John Hale, signing to the
detective to draw up a chair as he threw himself down on a lounge.
“Sit down, Frank,” and he turned again to the detective, as the latter
remained silent, with an impatient “Well?”

“You can answer a few questions, sir,” replied Ferguson.

John Hale lifted his broad shoulders in a contemptuous shrug.

“I have already shown great patience in that line,” he remarked dryly.

“Pardon me; you have answered a few questions most impatiently,”
retorted Ferguson. His temper was rising and rapidly overcoming
discretion. Instead of an angry rejoinder, John Hale gave a short laugh.

“Well, go on, what are your questions?” he asked. “Remember that we
have just come from my stepson’s funeral, and,”--he cleared his throat
before continuing--“I--have been under a severe strain.”

“True, sir; I promise not to be long.” Ferguson hitched his chair
nearer the two men. “It is in regard to the funeral that I desire to
speak. I was told by Coroner Penfield that you had requested that
Austin Hale’s body be cremated.”

“Well?” questioned John Hale as Ferguson paused.

“Why did you make that request, Mr. Hale?”

“Because I believe in cremation,” promptly.

“Were you not aware that Austin’s body could not be cremated until
after the mystery of his murder had been solved?”

“No, I am not a lawyer.”

“One does not have to be a lawyer to know that such a request would be
refused,” replied Ferguson.

Again John Hale shrugged his shoulders. “The request was perfectly
reasonable,” he declared.

“Under normal conditions, yes,” dryly. “Why did you make it?”

John Hale’s raised eyebrows indicated annoyance at the detective’s
persistence. “I have already told you,” he stated. “It is hardly
necessary to repeat that I believe in cremation.”

“And the absolute destruction of the body, so that no further medical
examination could be made if the need arose?” Ferguson smiled
skeptically. “Now, honestly, did you really think such a request would
get by?”

John Hale controlled his temper with an effort. “An autopsy had already
been held and the cause of Austin’s death determined,” he pointed out,
and then, addressing his silent companion, “What was McLane’s exact
definition, Frank?”

Latimer took out his notebook and turned its pages until he came to an
entry.

“Dr. McLane stated that Austin died as the result of a chest wound, and
that death was instantaneous, as the weapon penetrated to the heart,
or words to that effect,” he added and replaced the notebook in his
pocket, as John Hale again addressed the detective.

“You see, Ferguson, the autopsy told the cause of death; therefore my
request was not only natural, believing, as I do, in cremation, but
reasonable.” He leaned back and regarded the detective with candid
eyes. “That it was not granted was the unreasonable feature of the
case.”

Ferguson was slow in replying. “That you were advised to have the body
placed in the receiving vault at the cemetery shows how your request
was regarded by the authorities, Mr. Hale,” he remarked, and Latimer
broke into the discussion.

“Come, come,” he remonstrated. “You go too far in your zeal, Ferguson.
The ground is hard frozen and no graves can be dug; therefore all
bodies are being placed in the receiving vaults until the weather
moderates.”

“Maybe so,” Ferguson’s smile was non-committal. “But--your request came
very pat, Mr. Hale, and--it didn’t make a hit with Headquarters.”

John Hale straightened his powerful figure. “I don’t care a damn
how it hit Headquarters!” he declared, and his voice rose in angry
accents. “If this is all you wish with me, we may as well cut short our
interview; my time is valuable.”

“And so is mine, sir,” retorted Ferguson with equal heat. “How much
longer am I going to be prevented from seeing your brother, Mr. Robert
Hale?”

“Depends on how long it takes you to turn your head,” remarked a voice
back of the three men, and with one accord they spun around. Robert
Hale was occupying his favorite chair and he met their stares with one
of mild surprise.

“How long have you been in the room?” demanded John Hale.

His brother looked at the clock on the mantel. “A bare thirty seconds,”
he answered. “You were so absorbed in conversation that I hesitated to
interrupt you. When this gentleman”--with a motion of his hand toward
Ferguson--“asked in such impassioned tones for a sight of me, I could
not refrain from announcing my presence.”

“But”--John Hale bent forward and stared earnestly at his brother--“Dr.
McLane said that you were to remain in bed, that you were too weak----”

Hale interrupted him with a snap of his fingers. “That for McLane’s
diagnosis,” he said. “I am a bit weak, but staying in bed won’t cure
that complaint, so I dressed myself and came downstairs. Where is
Agatha?”

“She’s out,” tersely.

“So Anna informed me when I met her in the hall.” Hale swung his chair
around to the left so as to face them more directly. “Anna also said
that Judith was out and that Polly Davis was not in the house? Why is
every one out? Why”--with a quick impatient gesture--“is there such a
funereal air about the house?”

John Hale groaned inwardly and wasted a bitter ejaculation on his
sister-in-law. Why had Agatha postponed telling her husband of
Austin’s death? What if McLane had advised keeping the tragic news
from him--if he was strong enough to dress himself unassisted and walk
about the house, he had been strong enough to be told of the events
of the past forty-eight hours. But it had now fallen to his lot to do
so--it was generally his lot to be the harbinger of bad news in the
family. John Hale’s mouth set in grim lines.

“There has been a funeral in the house,” he announced with
characteristic bluntness. “Austin died Tuesday night.”

“Austin!” Hale sat bolt upright and regarded his brother; suddenly he
sank back in his chair and his head sagged forward on his chest.

“Good Lord!” John Hale leaped to his feet but Latimer was before him in
reaching his brother’s side.

“Some water--wine!” he called, and Ferguson bolted from the room in
search of Anna, the waitress. He found her polishing silver in the
dining room and at his breathless request she filled a glass with ice
water and thrust it in his hand. Ferguson reached the library just as
Latimer forced some cognac between Hale’s bloodless lips.

“He will revive in a minute,” he said, laying down the flask which
John Hale, recovering his dazed wits, had taken from a cabinet in one
corner of the library where his brother kept some wine secreted. “His
pulse is better now--there,” as the powerful stimulant took effect. “He
is coming to. Here, take a sip of this,” and Latimer snatched the glass
of water out of Ferguson’s hand. Hale, his eyelids fluttering, drank
slowly as Latimer tilted the glass gently against his lips.

With an effort Hale jerked himself erect and then leaned back, pushing
aside, as he did so, Latimer’s supporting hand.

“I’m all right,” he protested weakly. “Just over-estimated my
strength--wait.”

In the ensuing silence Detective Ferguson studied Robert Hale
attentively; it was the first time he had seen the scientist at close
quarters. There was something effeminate in Hale’s good looks and, in
spite of his gray hair, Ferguson put him down in his estimation as
belonging to the “pretty boy type.” The impression was enhanced by
the stalwart appearance of John Hale; the brothers were in striking
contrast, both in physical build and in mental equipment--one had
achieved fame in his chosen profession, while the other had made a bare
living as the result of hard work. Ferguson’s lips curled in contempt;
the small, slight, middle-aged man was hardly an impressive figure.

Suddenly Robert Hale reached for the flask and Latimer gave it to him.
Tilting his head backward, Hale took a long swallow, then laid the
flask carefully on the table within easy reach.

“Now, John,” he began, “tell me of Austin.”

“I should have broken the news more gently,” John Hale spoke with
contrition. “I should have remembered that you and Austin were great
pals.”

His brother passed his hand across his lips. “We were--” He paused
abruptly and did not complete his sentence. “Come, don’t be afraid, I
have myself in hand; tell me the details.”

John Hale looked dubiously at Latimer and the latter nodded his
encouragement. “Go ahead, tell him the whole story,” he advised. “It’s
worse to keep him in suspense.”

“Austin died on Tuesday night,” John Hale stated, choosing his words
with care, “to be exact, some time on Wednesday morning. He was stabbed
to death.”

“Stabbed!” Hale’s hand stole toward the flask, then was withdrawn.
“Stabbed by whom?”

“We don’t know.”

“Oh!” Robert Hale’s color was returning slowly. “Where was Austin
murdered?”

“Here.”

“Here?” The repetition was parrotlike.

“Yes, here.” Ferguson took a step forward and for the first time joined
in the conversation.

Hale turned and regarded him in silence, then looked inquiringly at
Latimer.

“This is Detective Ferguson of the Central Office,” he explained. “He
is detailed to investigate the mystery surrounding Austin’s death.”

Hale placed his elbow on the table and leaned his head on his hand.

“And what have you discovered, Inspector?” he asked.

“Nothing.” Ferguson, flattered by the title, spoke with courteous
promptness. “I have been waiting to interview you, Mr. Hale, as to what
transpired here on Tuesday night.”

“Tuesday?” Hale reflected a moment. “Let me see, I was taken ill with
the ‘flu’ last Friday, and I have not been up and about until this
morning. You will have to ask others in my household for information.”

“I have,” Ferguson made no effort to conceal his disappointment over
his failure to elicit news. “And every one declares nothing out of the
ordinary was either heard or seen.”

“Tuesday night,” repeated Robert Hale thoughtfully. “Tuesday
night--why, John, you went in my stead with Agatha to the French
Embassy reception; did Judith accompany you?”

“No, she stayed at home,” John Hale explained. “She said she had a
headache.”

“And her husband?” inquired his brother.

“Major Richards? Oh, he had a business engagement at the club.” John
Hale pulled forward a chair and sat down, the interview threatened to
grow protracted. “It was Joe who found Austin on his return.”

“Joe found him!” Robert Hale glanced upward and Latimer started at the
sudden flash in his dark eyes--eyes which until that moment had seemed
dull, almost dead, in their lusterless expression. “Well, what then?”

“Joe called in the police,” John Hale continued. “And to-day we are no
nearer detecting the criminal or discovering the motive for the crime
than we were at that hour.”

“Give us a chance, Mr. Hale,” protested Ferguson. “This is the first
time I’ve seen you,” turning to the elder brother. “There’s some
information you must give, if Mr. John Hale won’t.”

“Play fair, Ferguson,” objected John Hale. “I have never refused----”

“Be quiet, John.” Robert Hale spoke with authority. “As the head of the
house I will attend to this investigation.”

He was interrupted by a slight scream from the hall. The next instant
the portières were pulled aside and Mrs. Hale hurried toward him.

“Robert, you are really downstairs--and Anna did not lie,” she
commenced incoherently. “Do you not know that you are jeopardizing----”

“Quiet, Agatha”--Robert Hale let his wife clasp his hand in both
of hers, and Detective Ferguson, watching the scene with interest,
was again impressed with the quality of his voice. Rich in tone,
softly modulated, it almost caressed the ear, and Hale’s faultless
pronunciation added to the soothing effect. “Where is Judith?”

“Taking off her wraps. She will be here shortly.” Mrs. Hale seldom
completed her sentences when excited. “We have just returned from--”

“I can guess”--Hale eyed her mourning and her reddened eyelids.
“John has told me of Austin’s death.” He patted her hand gently,
sympathetically; then before she could speak, addressed the detective.
“You said you wished to question me; kindly do so.”

Ferguson pushed forward a chair for Mrs. Hale near her husband and,
drawing out his notebook, chose a seat near the table.

“When did you last see Austin Hale?” he asked.

“Before he left for New York six weeks ago.”

“Did you expect him to return on Tuesday night?”

“No.”

“Was Austin in financial difficulties?”

“Not to my knowledge.” Robert Hale addressed his brother. “How about
it, John?”

“I never heard of his having financial difficulties,” the latter
replied, his attention partly diverted by Mrs. Hale; she had an
annoying habit of biting her nails whenever perturbed in mind, and the
gnawing sound, slight as it was, was getting on her brother-in-law’s
nerves. She met his glare with a fixed stare, totally unconscious of
the cause of his wrath.

“Was Austin in love?” inquired Ferguson, his fountain pen flying over
the paper, jotting down questions and answers.

Robert Hale laughed faintly. “Does a kitten play?” he asked. “John,
you are better qualified to answer that question than I; Austin was
your”--he paused--“stepson.”

“And my adopted son, as well,” John Hale amplified his brother’s
statement. “If Austin intended to marry, I was not his confidant, and,
therefore, am unable”--his manner grew stiff and formal--“to give you
any information on the subject.”

Ferguson frowned in perplexity. The antagonism between the brothers was
plainly discernible and Frank Latimer, instinctively aware of which
way the detective’s thoughts were turning, grew uncomfortably warm and
conscious that he was still wearing his heavy overcoat.

Had Ferguson learned of the frequent disputes between the brothers,
which had at different times kept their Washington friends in constant
dread of their quarrels developing into actual conflict?

“Is it your custom to keep your safe unlocked, Mr. Hale?” asked
Ferguson, breaking the short silence.

“No.”

“Are you aware that it was open on Tuesday night?”

Hale picked up the flask of cognac, eyed it a moment, then laid it down
again before answering.

“No.”

“Has any one besides you the combination?”

“No.”

The detective watched Hale closely. Was his use of monosyllables due to
physical weakness, to a naturally taciturn disposition, or to a desire
to conceal information? Ferguson sighed impatiently and resumed his
examination with the point still undecided in his mind.

“Mr. Hale,”--he spoke with growing impressiveness--“I found Austin Hale
lying dead in this room on Wednesday morning--he was lying within a few
feet of your open safe. The door had not been forced; therefore it must
have been opened by some one having the combination.” He paused and the
silence lengthened; abruptly he broke it. “Please examine your safe,
Mr. Hale, and see if any money or documents are missing.”

“Wait, Robert.” The caution came from Mrs. Hale, and her husband looked
at her with marked displeasure. For the moment he had forgotten her
presence. “You must not overexert yourself,” she continued. “Let me
look in the safe?”

Robert Hale was on his feet before she had finished speaking.

“Don’t worry about me,” he exclaimed tartly. “I know what I am about,
Agatha,” and he walked somewhat unsteadily over to the safe, the others
following until they grouped themselves about him as he knelt down.
There was a distinct pause as he fumbled with the dial.

Mrs. Hale’s anxiety grew--would her husband never get the door open?
She was again about to intercede as she noted the paleness of his face
and his heavy breathing, but the door suddenly swung open and the
remonstrance remained unspoken.

Pushing his heavy gray hair off his forehead, Hale moved closer to the
safe, and without haste examined every compartment, then, supported by
his attentive wife, he rose painfully to his feet and dropped into a
chair.

“My papers and my wife’s jewelry are intact,” he stated.

Ferguson replaced his fountain pen and memorandum pad in his pocket.

“That settles it,” he declared. “Robbery was not the motive. The
murder of Austin Hale was an inside job----”

“You are wrong,” John Hale’s voice rang out loudly and echoed through
the large room. “Robbery was the motive.”

“Indeed!” Ferguson’s eyes snapped with excitement. Was he to learn
something tangible at last. “What was stolen?”

“Austin owned a valuable antique watch.” John Hale spoke slowly,
impressively, checking off each word on his finger. “He always carried
it--it was almost a fetish with him. The watch is missing.”

Concealed by the portières, Judith Richards leaned limply against the
door-jamb of the library and only Anna, the waitress, passing through
the hall, heard her astounded gasp, followed by a low moan.




CHAPTER VI

SPECULATION


IT was lacking twenty minutes of noon and Polly Davis frowned
discontentedly as she consulted her wrist-watch. She was under positive
instructions from Robert Hale to complete the compilation of data given
to her the week before. Hale’s cramped and peculiar style of penmanship
was difficult to read at any time, and with her thoughts wandering far
afield, Polly found her task more irksome than usual.

Swiftly her fingers moved over the familiar typewriter keys and with
mechanical exactness she copied--copied, pausing now and then to
decipher a nearly unintelligible paragraph, until she came to the end
of the manuscript notes. But her sigh of relief changed to a swift,
disgusted ejaculation as, dragging the last sheet out of the typewriter
she discovered that she had carelessly reversed the carbon and that
the second copy, intended for Hale’s files, was blank. The impression,
which should have been on it, was stamped, instead, on the back of the
top sheet.

With a gesture of rage she crumpled the sheet in her hand and hurled
it into the scrap basket. In its flight the paper ball just missed
striking Anna, the waitress, whose noiseless entry a second before had
escaped her attention. At sight of the servant Polly lowered her hand,
still raised after flinging the paper ball, and her features relaxed to
their wonted expression.

“I did not mean to bombard you, Anna,” she apologized. “Would you mind
moving the scrap basket over here where it will be more handy? Thanks,”
as the servant complied with her request. “Any letters for Mr. Hale?”

“The postman hasn’t brought the second mail yet, Miss Polly.” Anna
unfolded a small card table and stood it in front of Polly. “I hope
you don’t mind having your luncheon a little earlier to-day, miss. The
Madam gave me this afternoon off to go to the movies.”

“Mind? Well, hardly, I’m ravenous,” and Polly brightened as Anna put a
well-laden tray before her. “You are quite a movie fan, Anna; what are
you going to see to-day?”

“‘The Official Chaperon.’” Anna poured out a steaming cup of tea and
deftly supplied the proper amount of cream and sugar. “They say it is a
thriller.”

“The title is a little more sedate than ‘Without Sin,’” acknowledged
Polly laughing. “I believe that was the last movie you told me of
seeing; perhaps the new one won’t give you a nightmare.”

Anna colored. She was sensitive about the scene she had created ten
days before when her screams had awakened the household from sound
slumber and brought forth a severe scolding from Mrs. Hale on the
subject of attending trashy plays. Robert Hale had interfered in time
to prevent Anna, whose red hair was indicative of her hasty temper,
from giving notice, to the relief of the other members of the family
who liked the silent, well-trained servant.

“‘The Official Chaperon’ is a dandy,” she declared stoutly. “’Least so
the papers say. It’s about a society girl who is under the hypnotic
influence of a rascal, miss, a regular rascal--he even makes her commit
murder.”

Anna brought out the last word with such intensity that Polly actually
jumped.

“I see you are in for another nightmare,” she said, but the smile
accompanying her banter was fleeting. “Isn’t Mr. Austin’s murder
terrible enough without harrowing your soul with further tragedies?”

Before replying Anna removed the cover of the toast dish and placed
its tempting contents almost directly under Polly’s nose.

“It’s terrible, miss; so terrible that I want to forget it.”

Polly’s laugh did not ring quite true. “You take an odd way to do so,”
she remarked. “However, Anna, go and see the hypnotic movie murder, and
my blessings go with you.”

Anna regarded the tray critically for an instant without moving. “You
are not eating, miss,” she remonstrated. “I don’t know what I’ll do
with you and Miss Judith.”

Polly laid down her fork. She had been merely toying with the salad on
the plate before her.

“Has Miss Judith lost her appetite?” she asked.

“Yes, miss.” Anna stepped nearer and spoke more rapidly. “Miss Judith
appears sort of--of in a trance, like.”

“Trance!” Anna had no occasion to complain of inattention. Polly was
regarding the girl’s comely face with deep interest. For the first
time she observed the dark lines under the large eyes and saw that the
soft cream-tint of Anna’s perfect complexion, which she had frequently
envied in the past, was an unhealthy white. “Trance,” she repeated.
“What do you mean, Anna?”

“Exactly that, miss.” Anna spoke with positiveness. “She moves as if
she was in a dream. She don’t eat, don’t talk, and I don’t believe she
sleeps.”

“Dear me!” Polly bit viciously into a piece of chocolate cake. “Well,
it is not surprising, Anna, that Miss Judith is upset. She and Mr.
Austin were very fond of each other.”

“Until he wished to marry her,” was Anna’s shrewd retort. “Oh, we
servants aren’t blind, miss.”

“No, worse luck!” The low-spoken ejaculation escaped Polly unawares,
and she bit her lip. Apparently it was not overheard, for Anna made no
comment, and Polly asked in haste, “How did you know that Mr. Austin
desired to marry Miss Judith? You were not here at that time.”

“No, miss; but when the cablegram came telling of Miss Judith’s
unexpected marriage to Major Richards, cook told me all about Mr.
Austin’s courtship, and how Mr. Hale encouraged him. It was common
gossip, miss, not only below stairs but in society as well.” Seeing
that Polly had about completed her hastily eaten meal, Anna rearranged
the tray, preparatory to carrying it away. “You weren’t here then
either, miss, were you?”

“N--no.” Polly folded her napkin in its exact creases with due regard
to detail. “Don’t worry about Miss Judith, she will be all right as
soon as the shock of Mr. Austin’s death wears off.”

“Will she, miss?” Anna’s tone expressed doubt. She lifted the tray,
thought a moment, replaced it, and walked to Polly’s side. “Do you
think Miss Judith’s quite happy in her marriage?”

“What!” Polly stared at her questioner in blank astonishment “She and
her husband are ideally happy.”

“Are they, miss?” Anna shook a puzzled head, then bent until her
lips almost touched Polly’s ear. “Major Richards came home from Mr.
Austin’s funeral just in time for dinner, and went out immediately
after--and--he didn’t return until about six this morning.”

“How do you know?” demanded Polly. Her voice was sharp.

“I let him in, miss.” Anna picked up the tray and poised for flight.
“The Major said he had mislaid his latchkey.”

Polly regarded the waitress as she crossed the room, with critical
eyes. In spite of the heavy glass-topped tray, Anna walked with ease,
her fine upright carriage had frequently been commented upon admiringly
by Mrs. Hale’s dinner guests.

Polly turned back to her typewriter with renewed distaste. A glance
at her watch showed that it was after one o’clock. For some minutes
she sat in indecision. Then, tossing her papers into the drawer, she
covered her machine and went home.

She had been gone a bare ten minutes when the door opened and Robert
Hale stepped into the den. On catching sight of the empty chair in
front of the typewriter, he frowned, and, going over to the machine,
lifted its leather cover. A glance at its empty roll brought a shrug of
the shoulders, which was repeated when he looked at his watch. Without
sitting down he scanned the furniture and the scrap basket finally
caught his eye.

Dropping into Polly’s chair, he picked up the basket and examined the
pieces of torn envelopes, then the ball of paper claimed his attention
and he smoothed it out. He read the typewritten words listlessly at
first, then with slowly increasing interest, and finally folded the
sheet with care and slipped it inside his pocket. Five minutes later
he was smoking placidly in his favorite chair in the library.

Judith’s lack of appetite which had so distressed Anna, the waitress,
persisted, and during luncheon she partook of only one hot roll and
sipped a cup of tea. Mrs. Hale, loquacious as ever, paid no attention
to the curt responses of both her husband and daughter, and carried on
a lengthy conversation, much to her own satisfaction and the secret
enjoyment of Maud, the parlor maid, who, in Anna’s absence, was serving
luncheon unaided.

Mrs. Hale’s volatile nature had thrown off the depression of the past
two days and, after the funeral services in the mortuary chapel of Oak
Hill Cemetery, she had recovered from her inclination to hysteria and
was, to all intents and purposes, her normal self again. At least, so
the servants had concluded from her excessive interest in housekeeping
affairs.

Not waiting for the dessert to be passed, Judith pushed back her chair
and rose.

“If you will excuse me, Mother,” she said, “I will try to get a nap; I
did not sleep very well last night.”

Her father regarded her with concern. “My dear child!” he exclaimed,
startled by her pallor, “you look completely used up. Agatha, what do
you mean by permitting Judith to get up this morning? She needs entire
rest.”

“Well, really, Robert,”--Mrs. Hale flushed; her husband seldom
addressed her in that tone--“Judith has a husband to look after her;
I,” primly, “don’t interfere.”

The carmine rose in Judith’s white cheeks, then receded, leaving them
whiter than before. There was a perceptible pause before she spoke.

“There is no cause for interference, Mother,” she protested. “Joe
insisted upon my remaining in bed to-day, but I disobeyed him.”

Robert Hale laid down the cigar he was about to light and again
regarded her.

“Where was Joe last night?” he inquired, and at the question Judith
stiffened.

“He had to motor to Baltimore on business,” she explained. “In
returning, his chauffeur drove recklessly and they met with an
accident, so that Joe never reached home until about six o’clock this
morning.”

“So Anna told me.” Hale was looking at his cigar and not at his
daughter. “Hard on Joe to be sleepless for three nights running. When
he comes in ask him to look me up.”

“Yes, Father.” Judith had taken a few steps toward the entrance to the
central hall, when her mother’s shrill voice reached her.

“Why isn’t Joe here for luncheon?” she asked.

“He is lunching with friends at the Alibi Club.” Judith laid one hand
on the portière nearest her and, turning, faced her parents. “Why are
you so interested in Joe’s whereabouts?”

“What a question?” Hale laughed lightly. “We are interested in
everything which concerns you, Judith; and surely your husband is of
paramount importance. Run along, dearest, and get that needed sleep,”
and, rising, Hale crossed the room and kissed her. The lips which
Judith barely touched to his were cold, and without another word she
hastened to her room.

Hale stood in the doorway gazing thoughtfully into space; and his
expression gained in seriousness. “_The_ Alibi,” he muttered. “Bah!
_an_ alibi.”

Once in her bedroom, Judith locked the communicating door between it
and her boudoir; thus secured from interruption, she paced up and down
her room, her footfall on the heavy carpet making no sound. Back and
forth, back and forth--utter physical fatigue finally caused her to
drop into a chair.

But while soft upholstery brought rest to her tired body, it gave no
mental relief. What had come over her to lie--lie--lie--she, who had
been brought up by her New England grandmother to abominate even the
“delicate” white lie of society. And she had lied, not to an outsider,
but to her father and mother, and lied about her husband.

Judith drew a long breath. She had “explained” Richards’ absence by
drawing on her imagination. In reality she had no knowledge where he
had gone after dinner the night before. She had pretended to be asleep
when he came in at nearly seven in the morning and thrown himself on
the outside of the bed. He had slept the sleep of utter exhaustion,
and she had forborne to wake him, had forborne to question him when
he finally awoke--and he had volunteered no explanation. He had not
returned for luncheon, having left her with the remark that a stroll
down town would freshen him up--and that was all.

A few bitter tears forced themselves under Judith’s closed eyelids; it
was the first rift in their happy married life. His manner had been
affectionate, tender, but----

Judith dashed her hand across her eyes and rose. It took her but a
short time to change her house gown for a becoming suit. She was about
to leave the room when a thought struck her. Going over to the mantel,
she opened the small leather box and took from under its coiled wires
the locket which had so engrossed her attention on Wednesday morning.
She balanced the locket in her hand in indecision, then, closing the
box, she went to her bureau and from its upper drawer took out a jewel
box, opened it, and dropped the locket among the other pieces of
jewelry the box contained, locked it, and put the box back in place
inside the drawer.

On her way to the front door Judith encountered her mother and was
promptly stopped.

“Judith!” Mrs. Hale’s accents indicated a crescendo of astonishment.
“My dear, didn’t you hear your father say that you were to go to bed?”

“Now, Mother, please”--Judith placed her finger lightly against Mrs.
Hale’s rouged lips. “Not another word. As you said at luncheon, I am
a married woman now, and--I know best.” Before Mrs. Hale could frame
another remonstrance, she had run out of the front door and sprung into
her electric car and driven off.

Traffic regulations prevented Judith from parking her car in front
of the tall office building where “Latimer and House,” had their
stock-brokerage office, and she was obliged to walk almost a block,
a distance which she covered in record time and arrived, somewhat
breathless, in the anteroom of that firm. At her request to see the
senior partner, she was at once taken to Frank Latimer’s private
office. With characteristic directness she plunged at once into her
errand.

“I have come to see you on business, Frank,” she began, taking the
chair his clerk placed for her. “Confidential business.”

Latimer signed to his clerk to withdraw and then turned to her.

“Anything I can do?” he asked. “I am entirely at your service, Judith.”

“Thanks.” Judith’s quick smile enhanced her beauty, and Latimer
regarded her with admiration. He and her Uncle John had been her pals
since the days when she wore short frocks. “I want your advice about
some bonds, Frank.”

“Surely.” Latimer drew a pad and pencil toward him. “Have you decided
on your investment?”

“I am not going to buy--I wish to sell.”

“Oh!” Latimer showed his surprise, but she gave him no opportunity to
say anything further.

“How much would ten one hundred dollar bonds of the Troy Valve Company
bring?” she asked.

Latimer again glanced at her in surprise. “They are selling above par,”
he said. “Wait”--and he consulted a printed table of figures--“to be
exact, 125-1/2--they fell off a point in yesterday’s market.”

“Let me see”--Judith did a sum in mental arithmetic--“that would net me
about $1250.”

“A little more than that,” Latimer completed his memorandum. “If you
hold the bonds for forty-eight hours they will recover--industrials are
in great demand now.”

“But I want the money.”

“But Judith,” he remonstrated, “don’t sacrifice your bonds. Why not ask
your father for a loan?”

“No,”--Judith tempered the refusal--“Father wouldn’t understand. I need
the money for--for an emergency.”

“Well, see here, Judith,”--Latimer pulled out his check book--“won’t
you let me help out?”

Judith flashed him a look of gratitude. “Don’t think I am
unappreciative of your generous offer,” she exclaimed, “if I decline
it.”

“All right, Judith,” and Latimer returned his check book to the desk
drawer. “But don’t sell your bonds. You can raise a thousand at any
bank by giving them as collateral with your note.”

Judith’s expression altered. “I hadn’t thought of that,” she exclaimed.
“Perhaps that would be better.”

“Then if it will be of assistance to you I’ll arrange it at the bank.”
Judith nodded a vigorous assent. “Will one thousand be enough?”

Judith considered a second. “Yes, I believe so.”

“Have you the bonds with you?”

“No, they are in our safe at home.” Judith glanced at her wrist-watch
and saw that it was half-past two. “I’ll bring the bonds to-morrow
morning; that will be time enough. I have the numbers here, however,”
and drawing out her bank book from her bag, she turned to its back
pages. “They run from 37982 to 37991.” She was on her feet before
Latimer had laid down his pencil. “I must hurry, Frank.” Impulsively
she clasped his hand in both of hers. “I can’t begin to thank you.”

“Nonsense!” Latimer patted her gently on the shoulder. “I am only too
glad, Judith, to be of service. How is your father?”

“Oh, he is all right again.” Judith could not restrain her impatience
to be off. “Mother’s rather fidgety; so are we all”--and an
involuntary sigh accompanied the words. “Austin’s death was a shock we
have not recovered from. It’s--it’s numbed us”--hunting about for a
word.

“I understand,” and Latimer looked sympathetically at her as he
escorted her through his private entrance into the corridor and to the
elevator shaft. “The newspapers said there were no new developments in
the case. Are you still annoyed by the police?”

“Not to-day,” Judith stopped at the stairs. “I can’t wait for the
elevator; it’s only a few flights, so good-by.” And waving her hand,
she almost ran down the steps.

As Latimer reëntered his private office he found his head clerk
standing by his desk with a number of papers in his hand.

“These bonds have just been offered,” he explained, extending the
papers and Latimer glanced at them. The next second he snatched up his
memorandum pad and compared the figures noted thereon with the numbers
engraved on the Troy Valve bonds--37982. With quickened interest
Latimer turned over the bonds--each of the ten numbers tallied with
those on the memorandum pad.

“Where did you get these Valve bonds?” he demanded.

“One of our new customers--I forget his name--has just sold them to
cover his margins.”

Latimer stared at his clerk. “Is the customer still here?”

“Yes, sir; at least he was a few minutes ago.”

Latimer strode to the outer office door and opened it slightly; over a
dozen men and women were grouped about the ticker at the other end of
the room.

“Which is the customer?” he demanded, keeping his voice low.

The clerk peered over his shoulder.

“There--that’s him,” he exclaimed; Latimer’s excitement, though
subdued, had communicated itself to him and his grammar went astray.
“There, he’s going out of the front door.”

And Latimer, looking eagerly across the office, was just in time to
recognize the clear-cut features and the straight soldierly figure.
Joseph Richards had disposed of the ten bonds owned by his wife--which
Judith desired to sell--to cover his margins in stock speculations.

Latimer sat down in the nearest chair conscious of a feeling of
faintness for the first time in his life.




CHAPTER VII

THE KNAVE OF HEARTS


THE death of Austin Hale under mysterious circumstances had created a
veritable sensation in Washington, and the residents of the National
Capital read with avidity every newspaper account. To the indignation
of the city editors and the staffs of newspaper men few details were
forthcoming from either Police Headquarters or the Hale residence. Thus
thrown upon their own resources, imagination played a large part in
their “write-ups” of the tragedy which, headed by display type of the
most sensational character, had but served to whet the appetite of the
reading public.

Robert Hale and his family occupied a prominent position, both in the
scientific world and in society, and young Austin Hale, who had been
petted and indulged by his hosts of friends, was genuinely mourned, and
Anna, the waitress, detailed Maud, the parlor maid, to remain at the
front door and receive the visiting cards bearing the message, “With
sincere sympathy,” or perfumed notes of condolence addressed to Mrs.
Hale, Judith, and John Hale.

Mrs. Hale looked with dismay at the formidable pile of notes which Maud
had handed to her with a flourish at the close of dinner.

“I shall have to borrow Polly Davis to acknowledge these messages of
sympathy for me, Robert,” she remarked, laying aside her lorgnette and
addressing her husband who, occupied with a game of solitaire, sat at a
near-by table in the library.

Robert Hale considered the Knave of Hearts before discarding it.

“Very well, if you need Polly’s services you can have her,” he said,
drawing another card from the pack. “But it is for a limited time only,
recollect Polly is behind in my work.”

Judith, knitting industriously in her corner of the big divan, stopped
her busy needles for a moment.

“Polly isn’t looking very well, Father,” she stated slowly. “Don’t give
her additional work; she is not very strong.”

Hale looked displeased. “I am not giving her additional work,” he
protested. “Polly is behindhand, and it is entirely her own fault. She
has been giving too much attention to society and too little to her
duties as my secretary.”

“Tut, Judith,” Mrs. Hale promptly took exception to the implied
criticism of her husband. “Your father is quite right, he has been most
lenient with Polly and her flirtations.”

“I hardly think it is our place to judge Polly.” Judith spoke with
increasing earnestness. “The girl tries hard to keep up with her work,
and your manuscript is not always easy, Father. You ought to recollect,
also, Mother, that she has led a colorless life until this winter. She
has a mother entirely dependent upon her, and they are cruelly poor.”

“All the more reason for attending strictly to her work,” grunted Hale,
but his voice had softened, as it always did when Judith was a special
pleader and that his daughter was much in earnest was plainly evident.
“Can’t you manage those notes yourself, Agatha?”

“Let me answer them for you,” broke in Joe Richards, and, rising from
his seat under a standing lamp where he had been reading an evening
newspaper, he walked over to the divan. “My penmanship used to be
pretty fair, and if Judith will dictate what to say--”

“Of course I will,” Judith’s blue eyes flashed him a grateful message.
“Now, Father, if you will consent, I wish to give Polly a--a vacation.”

Hale raised his head and contemplated her in surprise. “A vacation?”
he echoed. “Come, Judith, that is a different matter; I am willing
not to give Polly additional work, but she must complete her regular
secretarial duties.”

Richards looked from father to daughter. “Can’t I help out there, also,
Mr. Hale?” he asked.

“You cannot,” was the prompt response, and under his tan Richards
felt his color rise. Hale’s manner to him could never be termed
ingratiating. If Judith caught the undercurrent of dislike in her
father’s abrupt refusal she gave no sign of it, as she went placidly on
with her knitting.

“I will see that you are supplied with a secretary in Polly’s place,”
she explained. “And if you consent, Father, I plan to give her and her
mother a trip to Atlantic City.”

“Bless my soul, Judith!” Mrs. Hale dropped the note she was reading and
stared at her. “I think such generosity is quite unnecessary.”

“Please”--Judith laid aside her knitting and her voice was soft and
winning. “Please, dear, let me have my way in this. You, Father, will
benefit.”

Hale, in gathering up his playing cards, dropped half of them on the
floor, and he was some seconds in collecting them, with the assistance
of Richards.

“How shall I benefit?” he asked, acknowledging Richards’ courtesy with
a nod of his head.

“By getting more efficient work,” Judith explained. “Polly is on the
point of a nervous breakdown. Rest and sea breezes will put her on
her feet again; whereas if she is forced to leave you on account of
illness, you will still be obliged to fill her place--perhaps for an
indefinite time.”

Hale stacked the cards neatly before him and rising, put the small
table back against the wall in its customary place. “I’ll think over
your plan, Judith,” he agreed. “But mind you, I can’t promise. Well,
Agatha,”--as his wife, seeing he was about to leave the library, rose
also, a bundle of papers in her hand--“what is it? Do you wish to go on
a vacation, also?”

“No, indeed!” Mrs. Hale took her courage in both hands. “Here are some
bills--they have just come in,” hastening to forestall objections.
But, contrary to her expectations, Hale did not indulge in his usual
sarcastic comments regarding her efforts to keep household accounts
systematically--the word “system” was not in Mrs. Hale’s vocabulary.

“Bring the bills to my den,” he suggested, “and I will go over them.
Don’t stay up too late, Judith,” he cautioned, turning back from
the door as Mrs. Hale, much relieved, hastily gathered together her
cherished account books, which never balanced, and scurried out of
the library ahead of him in some trepidation lest he might change his
mind. Hale looked first at Judith and then at her husband. “Don’t let
Judith overtire herself, Joe; we cannot have that.” Wheeling around, he
followed his wife upstairs.

Judith looked up from her knitting as Richards paused by the side of
the divan and regarded her.

“Do you feel ill, dearest?” he asked, and the concern in his tone
brought a touch of color to her wan cheeks.

“No, only--” Judith hesitated. “Father is right, I am very tired--I
couldn’t sleep last night.” Her usually clear voice quivered; another
second and Richards’ arms were around her and her head was pillowed on
his broad shoulder.

“My dear, dear love,” he murmured. “Judith, don’t cry, my darling,
don’t”--in distress, as her self-control gave way. The storm of tears
ceased almost as abruptly as it started, and Judith met her husband’s
tender glance with a brave little smile.

“I am not often inclined to hysterics,” she whispered. “Forgive me,
dear.”

“Forgive you!” Richards laughed softly. “Always, dear heart.
Judith”--and his clasp tightened--“you have no idea how precious
you are to me; how I worship you”--his strong voice grew rough with
emotion. “I am not half worthy of you.”

“Hush!” Judith placed a tender finger across his lips. “Don’t say
that, Joe. The world never held such happiness for me until I met you,
and there has been no shadow until”--she faltered a minute--“until
yesterday.”

“Until yesterday?” Richards’ astonishment was plain. “You mean Austin’s
funeral?”

“No.” Judith colored warmly. “I mean your leaving after dinner last
night without saying anything to me and--and--your getting back so
late, or rather, so early this morning.”

“Good gracious, Judith!” Richards chuckled, then grew grave. “John
asked me to go to the club, and I left word with your father--didn’t he
give you the message?”

“No; Father felt badly early in the evening and went to bed without my
seeing him. Did you stay at the club all night?” again she colored. “I
was awake when you came in this morning.”

“You were!” Richards smiled wryly. “And I thought you asleep and did my
best not to awaken you. At the club I met Sandy Nichols, and he asked
me to run over to Baltimore and try out his new Pierce Arrow--he was
my pal in the A. E. F., you know,” he interpolated. “We expected to be
back before midnight, but we first lost our way owing to a detour, and
then the car broke down on the return trip. I tried to telephone, but
Central declared the house would not answer.”

“Mother had the phone disconnected; she insisted it disturbed Father.”
Judith’s spirits were returning, and the glance she gave him was full
of mischief. “You have no idea how worried I was.”

“Judith!” Richards held her face between his hands and gazed straight
into her eyes. “Judith, you weren’t jealous?”

Slowly, slowly her eyes fell before his ardent look and the rich color
mantled almost to her brow. “Yes, I was,” she confessed, and holding
her in close embrace, he kissed her tenderly.

“Judith,” he said, “never doubt my loyalty to you--my devotion.”
He stopped, hesitated, and his voice grew even lower. “You are my
life--my religion.”

“Joe!” Startled by the intensity of his manner, Judith stood up. “You
must not exalt me. I am an ordinary mortal, subject to error.”

“No.” Richards rose and faced her, his hands resting lightly on her
shoulders. “In my eyes you can do no wrong.”

Richards stood tall and straight before her, his six feet two of sturdy
manhood matched by her slender willowy figure, for Judith was above
the usual height for women. Maud, the parlor maid, who had come in
search of Mrs. Hale, felt a sympathetic thrill as she noted the rapt
expression of the lovers and stole away without disturbing them.

“Joe,”--Judith slipped her hand inside his and gave it a gentle
squeeze--“this is the first really happy moment I have known since I
regained my senses in my boudoir on Tuesday night, or rather Wednesday
morning. I do not understand how I came to faint.”

Richards glanced at her for an instant. Then his gaze traveled across
the room and rested on the spot where Austin Hale’s body had lain that
fateful Wednesday morning.

“You had reached the limit of endurance, dearest,” he declared. “Tell
me,”--and again his eyes sought hers--“you heard nothing--no sound of a
struggle, no scream?”

Judith shook her head and the pathetic look which Richards had grown to
know crept into her eyes. “I am deaf.”

“But with this, dear,” and he touched the earpiece of the
“globia-phone” which she was wearing. “Surely you could hear something.”

“I did not have it on Tuesday night,” she explained. “My head ached
and when I braided my hair I took it off, for even the slight weight
of the instrument intensified the pain. And you must remember that the
walls of this house are sound-proof; I could not hear, even when I was
wearing this earphone, anything transpiring downstairs while I was in
our boudoir.”

“In our boudoir!” The words slipped mechanically from Richards. “Don’t
you recollect, dearest, that I found you unconscious in the front hall
downstairs?”

“In the front hall?” Judith faltered and dropped her eyes. “Why--I--I
thought you found me in our boudoir. I revived there.”

“I carried you upstairs.” Richards bit his lip as a faint “Oh!” broke
from Judith. She made no other comment, and he continued, “How did it
happen that your earphone was in your father’s safe?”

“I suppose he picked it up and absent-mindedly put it there.”

“But, Judith,”--Richards glanced away from her--“your father stated
that he was taken ill with the ‘flu’ on Friday a week ago, and that he
did not come downstairs until yesterday. How then could he have put the
earphone in the safe on Tuesday night?”

“I did not say he put it there Tuesday night,” Judith spoke a bit
sharply. “It may have been there for days and I never would have missed
it, for I have about every ear instrument ever invented. Father is
always buying some new invention, and you will find them scattered all
over the house, much to Mother’s annoyance.” Judith had spoken with
unusual rapidity and she came to a breathless pause.

“Judith,”--Richards hesitated a brief second--“what brought you
downstairs on Tuesday night?”

“I was looking for you,” she confessed. “You said that you would return
early”--with faint reproach.

“Did you see Austin?” The question came with marked reluctance, and in
the deepening silence Richards caught the tick-tock of the clock over
the fireplace. His hands tightened their clasp and he grew conscious
that hers had grown cold.

“I had no knowledge of Austin’s presence in the house,” she stated and
winced. “Don’t, Joe, you are hurting me”--and Richards awakened to the
fact that he had pressed her hands with such force that her wedding
ring had cut into the delicate flesh.

“Forgive me,” he murmured, and, raising her hands, pressed them to his
lips.

“Joe,”--Judith had grown singularly pale and the hand she disengaged
from his and laid on his arm was not quite steady--“believe me, dear,
when I say that I heard nothing on that Tuesday night preceding or
following Austin’s death.”

“You heard nothing,” Richards repeated; neither looked at the other.
“I believe you, sweetheart.” He kissed her gently. “You must not worry
so, Judith; you will make yourself ill, and I fear I have kept you up
talking much too long,”--in deep contrition as the dock chimed ten.
“Come, dear.” And with his arm thrown protectingly about her shoulders,
he strolled with her to the door.

As they passed the card table Judith caught sight of a playing card
lying on the rug and her orderly instinct caused her to stoop and pick
it up just as the portières parted and Mrs. Hale dashed breathlessly
into the library.

“You haven’t gone upstairs!” she exclaimed, much relieved. “The most
dreadful thing has happened.”

“What?” demanded Judith and her husband in unison.

“Anna has fallen and sprained her ankle.”

“Is that all?” Judith’s relief took the form of a short laugh.

“All? Good gracious, to have a waitress laid up is serious enough,
without having that waitress, Anna,” Mrs. Hale spoke in scandalized
disapproval. “Anna is the most useful person in the house.”

“I know she is,” agreed Judith. “I spoke in haste, Mother, but you
frightened me; I thought something had happened to--to Father.”

“Let me call a doctor,” suggested Richards practically and walked
toward the desk phone. But Mrs. Hale stopped him.

“I have already telephoned,” she explained. “McLane is detained at the
hospital with a serious case and can’t come, but he gave me explicit
directions over the phone, and I shall carry them out.” Mrs. Hale had
unbounded confidence in her medical knowledge, a confidence, however,
not shared by the members of her family. “But I find that we have no
arnica in the medicine chest.”

“Let me go for it,” volunteered Richards and, not waiting for Mrs.
Hale’s voluble thanks, he started for the door, pausing only to call
to Judith. “Run upstairs, Judith, don’t wait for me.” Snatching up his
hat and overcoat, he disappeared out of the house, in his haste never
hearing Mrs. Hale’s parting injunction. She turned with a worried air
to her daughter.

“I declare, Judith, I forgot to ask him to get bandages.”

“I have some.” Judith slipped her arm inside her mother’s. “Come up to
my boudoir and then I will go with you to see Anna.”

Three quarters of an hour later, the arnica applied and the swollen
ankle neatly bandaged, Judith came downstairs in quest of a decanter of
whiskey which her father kept carefully secreted in the dining room.
Anna had expressed a desire for a “nightcap” and Mrs. Hale had begged
Judith to prepare it for her.

Judith poured out a liberal portion of Scotch, replaced the decanter
in its recess behind the sideboard, and then hastened toward the door,
intending to add the hot water when she reached Anna’s bedroom. As she
passed the drawn portières across the entrance to the library, her
eyes caught a ray of light showing between its folds. Judith halted in
surprise and, parting the portières, looked inside the library. Seated
in her father’s favorite chair was her uncle, John Hale. By his side
stood Frank Latimer, both with their backs partly turned toward her.
Her uncle’s raised voice reached her in the stillness and she caught
the mention of her husband’s name.

“I know very little about Joe Richards’ antecedents,” John Hale stated.
“He seems a good fellow, whole-souled, well-set-up--educated. We knew
nothing of Judith’s marriage until her cable came.”

“How about Richards’ financial standing?”

“Why do you ask, Frank?” John Hale regarded his friend in surprise.

Latimer moved nearer. “The question is prompted by our long friendship,
John, by my affection for Judith.” The gravity of his manner startled
the listening girl. “I had to see you to-night; I could not rest until
I did.” Latimer polished his round spectacles and adjusted them with
care. “What we say is in confidence. It is imperative that I get some
information about Richards, particularly as to his financial standing.
Has he money?”

“He appears to have plenty of ready cash,” admitted John Hale slowly.
“I heard to-day that he has applied for a position with the Ludlow
Locomotive Works.” He paused. “Tuesday Richards went to our bank and
asked for a loan, offered to supply bonds as collateral, and gave us as
references--that is how I learned of the transaction.”

“Did the bank make the loan?”

“Not yet; the treasurer consulted me, and has the matter under
advisement.” Again he paused. “It greatly depends upon the bonds he
offers.”

Latimer stared at his companion. “Good Lord!” he groaned, and again
wiped his glasses. “Listen, John, and don’t breathe a word of what I
say, d’ye hear?”

“I won’t,” and the pledge rang out clearly.

“Judith came to my office this afternoon and asked me to sell ten bonds
of the Troy Valve Company. I advised her to borrow from her bank,
offering them as collateral, and before she left she gave me the bond
numbers, 37982 to 37991. She hadn’t been gone five minutes when my
clerk brought me in ten bonds of the Troy Valve Company bearing those
identical numbers. See for yourself,” and he laid a bundle of papers in
John Hale’s hand. “The bonds had been sold to us not ten minutes before
to cover margins in stock speculations when the market fell to-day.”

“Well, go on,” urged John Hale.

“The speculator and the man who sold the bonds are one and the same
person--Joseph Richards. Now, how did Richards get hold of Judith’s
bonds which, mind you, she expected to bring to me to-morrow?”

John Hale, who had followed Latimer’s slow speech with absorbed
attention, answered almost automatically.

“Robert confided to me this evening that on careful examination of
the contents of his safe to-day, he found that Judith’s bonds were
missing.” He stopped, then added, “We have not told Judith.”

As the full meaning of her uncle’s words dawned on Judith she swayed
upon her feet and in desperation clutched the glass and prevented it
from slipping through her shaking fingers. Very softly she tiptoed
through the dining room and out into the central hall. At the
stairs she paused and, raising the glass, swallowed some of Anna’s
“nightcap.” She was hardly conscious of the fiery undiluted liquor
which burned her tongue and throat, but under the false strength it
engendered she hurried up the staircase and came face to face with her
husband on the top landing.

His face cleared at sight of her. “I was hurrying to find you,” he
explained, and took the glass from her. “Your mother told me that she
had sent you for this. I’ll take it to Anna. Go to bed, dearest.” And
he sped away as Judith turned into their boudoir.

With slow, uncertain steps Judith made her way to her dressing table
and fell rather than sat in the chair standing before it.

Her bonds had been stolen--Joe had sold them to Latimer to cover losses
in speculation. The words rang their changes--but their distinct
meaning beat itself against her brain and, with a low moan of anguish,
she bowed her head upon her arms, thereby displacing the playing card
which she had picked up earlier that evening in the library and flung
unheeded on her dressing table. The red of it caught and held her eye,
and suddenly she laughed loudly--unrestrainedly.

“The Knave of Hearts!” she gasped between her bursts of merriment.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Judith’s hysterical laughter echoed through the open door into the
boudoir, a figure just entering it, paused, listened a moment, then
with bent head, retreated cautiously into the hall and stole silently
away.




CHAPTER VIII

PRO AND CON


AT sight of John Hale towering head and shoulders above the others in
the outer office of Latimer and House, Stockbrokers, the senior partner
hastily excused himself from several persistent clients and sent his
messenger to bring John Hale into his private office.

“Well?” he demanded without further greeting. “Well, has the night
brought counsel?”

John Hale tipped the revolving chair he was occupying back to its limit
before replying.

“The night brought nothing but sleeplessness,” he groaned. “Whichever
way you look at it, Frank, it’s a damnable situation. Judith’s bonds
missing from her father’s safe and discovered in her husband’s
possession, and Austin found stabbed to death within a few feet of
the opened safe in which her bonds were kept. My God! Frank,”--he
bent nearer and Latimer saw the beads of perspiration standing on his
brow,--“do you realize all that that implies?”

“You mean that Joe Richards opened the safe, stole the bonds and,
caught in the act by Austin, killed him?” asked Latimer.

“Yes, that’s about it.” John Hale twirled his walking stick about.
“Well, it tallies, doesn’t it?” and only by an effort of will did he
hide a touch of eagerness.

Latimer pondered a moment before replying. “Yes, it tallies,” he
agreed, “but you have no evidence to substantiate it. For instance, to
open the safe Richards had to know the combination.”

“Well, he might have picked it up.”

“True, he might have, but you will have to prove that he did.”

“I prove it?” John Hale’s heavy brows met in a scowl. “That’s the
detective’s job, not mine.”

“I used the pronoun to imply the prosecution, and not in its personal
application,” Latimer explained. “Where was Richards on Tuesday night?”

“Playing billiards at the club.”

“Have you proof of the exact time he left there?”

“No, but I’ll get it,” and John Hale’s tone implied grim determination.

“Then suppose you make inquiries at the club,” suggested Latimer; “but
be guarded, John. Every one’s attention is focused on Austin’s murder
and you might start an ugly scandal.”

John Hale reddened. “Well, what if I do?” he grumbled. “The situation
couldn’t be much worse than it is to-day,”--shooting a defiant look at
his friend. “Austin murdered under mysterious circumstances, and the
police haunting our house, not to mention the morbid sight-seers who
gather about it. I cannot stir out of the place without encountering
curious glances. Even at the club there’s excitement whenever I
appear--and the newspaper men!” He struck the desk a resounding blow
with his clenched fist. “Damn it! If Richards murdered Austin he’ll
swing for it--I don’t care if he’s married Judith a dozen times over.”

“Easy, easy,” cautioned Latimer. “Cool down, John, and let us discuss
this matter rationally. What have we discovered against Richards?”

“That he was playing the market, that he was in need of funds, and
that he had in his possession bonds belonging to Judith which had been
stolen on Tuesday night from my brother’s safe, near which we found
Austin’s body in the small hours of Wednesday morning.” John Hale
moderated his excited manner. “Pretty damning evidence.”

“As far as it goes,” agreed Latimer. “Now, to make it conclusive you
must prove: first, that Richards was at your house between Tuesday
midnight and one A. M. Wednesday; and secondly, that he knew the
combination of your brother’s safe. Recollect, it was not forced open.”

“I’ll make it my business to find out.” John Hale reached for his hat
and his gloves which he had tossed on the desk. “I am also going to
have inquiries made regarding Richards’ career.”

“An excellent idea,” exclaimed Latimer. “But you had better employ a
private detective agency, John, rather than the local police. Try the
Burroughs Company, they handled some work for our firm when Johnston,
the bank cashier, hypothecated stock belonging to us.”

“Where’s their office?” asked John Hale, jotting down the name on the
back of an envelope.

“In the Fendall Building, corner of John Marshall Place.”

John Hale completed the address and replaced the envelope in his breast
pocket.

“Listen, Frank,” he began. “Austin’s murder was unpremeditated--the
weapon used proves that. No man would deliberately kill another with a
pair of shears.”

Latimer shook his head in doubt. “You are taking a great deal for
granted,” he protested.

“Not a bit of it,” vigorously. “Austin caught Richards going through
the safe and Richards grabbed the first thing handy--Judith’s shears.”
Latimer said nothing, and after a brief pause John Hale continued.
“The crime was committed by some one familiar with the habits of our
household--the police claim that. No better time could have been
selected for rifling Robert’s safe. He was ill in bed, and Agatha and I
were attending the French Embassy reception and, by the way, we decided
to go only at the last moment--that’s an important point.”

“You mean----”

“Richards was present when I told Agatha that I would take her to the
reception, and he left the house immediately afterward.” John Hale was
becoming excited again. “Thus, Richards knew that the coast would be
clear.”

“Hold on, he was aware that Judith was at home, and the servants,
also,” objected Latimer.

“Sure, and he knew that our servants retire early. Anna sees to the
closing of the house, and she is very strict with the other servants.”
John Hale rose abruptly and emphasized his words by striking his cane
against the floor. “And Richards knew that Judith would not be likely
to hear him, and if she did--”

“Well, what then?” as John Hale paused.

“He probably had a plausible excuse handy. Oh, he could have
manufactured some story which Judith would have swallowed,” retorted
John Hale. “Remember, they haven’t been married long.”

Latimer frowned. “Who is going to tell Judith about the theft of her
bonds?” he asked, rising also.

“It’s up to you.” John Hale moved uneasily and glanced away from his
companion. “Judith came to you about her bonds.”

“Dash it all, John!” Latimer spoke with temper. “I’m damned if I will.
Don’t you realize that Judith worships her husband?”

“Well, it’s not the first time a woman has been deceived in a man,”
replied Hale cynically. “What did she marry for in such an all-fired
hurry? I am sorry for Judith, but she must ‘dree her weird.’”

Whatever reply Latimer intended making was interrupted by the entrance
of a clerk.

“This special delivery letter has just come for you, sir,” he
explained handing it to Latimer. Then, with a polite bow to John Hale,
of which the latter took not the slightest notice, the clerk departed.

Latimer tore open the envelope and ran his eyes down the written page
to the signature. An exclamation escaped him.

“It is from Judith,” he said. “Listen:”

  DEAR FRANK:

  I gave my Valve bonds to Joe to use as he saw fit, and he tells me
  that he took the shares to you and you were kind enough to arrange the
  business for him, so I shall not need the $1,000 after all.

  Please don’t tell the family that I’ve become a bit of a gambler; Joe
  doesn’t quite approve of a woman speculating, but--he’s dear about it.

  Thanks for all your kindness.

                                             Faithfully,
                                                  JUDITH RICHARDS.

Latimer and John Hale stared at each other.

“Let me see that letter,” the latter demanded, and he read it twice
before handing it back to Latimer. “What do you make of it?”

Latimer laughed heartily. “Thank God I shan’t have to break any
unpleasant news to her,” he exclaimed. “But the inconsistency of women!
To come to me for advice and then get her husband to do exactly what I
advised her not to.”

“What was your advice?”

“To use the bonds as collateral at a bank and not sell them.”

John Hale studied him in thoughtful silence for a minute.

“When did Richards bring the bonds here, Frank?” he asked. “Was it some
time after Judith left?”

“No; come to think of it, he must have been in the outer office when
Judith was talking to me,” responded Latimer, and his face grew grave
once again.

“And Judith states”--John Hale picked up his niece’s letter--“‘I gave
my Valve bonds to Joe to use as he saw fit and he tells me that he took
the bonds to you--’ Did Judith mention to you where she had the bonds?”

“Now that you speak of it, she did say that they were in her father’s
safe.” Latimer eyed John Hale sharply. “What are you driving at?”

“Simply this, that if Richards was in your front office with the
bonds in his possession, they could not have been where Judith
thought them--in her father’s safe. Secondly,”--and John Hale’s voice
deepened--“there was no time for Judith to return home, get the bonds
and give them to Richards _before_ he sold them to your clerk here in
your outer office. Isn’t that right?”

“Yes.” Latimer’s worried look returned. “By Jove, you think--?”

“That Judith has discovered that her bonds are missing.”

“Do you suppose your brother told her?”

“I hardly think so, for he swore me to secrecy,” replied John Hale.
“No, Judith must have gone to get the bonds and found them missing from
the safe.”

“But, good Lord! How did she know that her husband had brought the
bonds to me?” demanded Latimer.

“Ask me something easy.” Hale swung his cane around and stepped briskly
to the door. “But depend on it, Frank, I’ll find an answer to that
question before I’m many hours older.” And he banged out of the door.

Latimer strode thoughtfully up and down his office, then reseated
himself at his desk.

“What’s come over John?” he muttered. “He seemed anxious,”--he
paused--“no, more than anxious,--determined,--to fix the guilt on Joe
Richards.”

He leaned forward and eyed Judith’s letter, reading it slowly, conning
over the words, and when he straightened up there was a gleam of frank
admiration in his eyes.

“You are a loyal woman, Judith,” he exclaimed, unconscious that he
spoke aloud. “As well as ‘a bit of a gambler.’”




CHAPTER IX

HALF A SHEET


POLLY DAVIS closed the vestibule door of her home in C Street with a
veritable slam and proceeded up the street oblivious of greetings from
several of her neighbors. The street, celebrated in its day for having
among the occupants of its stately old-fashioned brick houses such
personages as John C. Fremont, John C. Calhoun, and General Winfield
Scott, was chiefly given over to modern business enterprises, and only
a few “Cave-dwellers” (the name bestowed upon Washingtonians by an
earnest “climber” to its exclusive resident circles) still occupied the
homes of their ancestors.

Polly slackened her swift walk into a saunter as she turned the corner
from C Street into John Marshall Place. On reaching D Street she
accelerated her speed somewhat on catching sight of an approaching
street car, but it did not stop to take on passengers, and Polly walked
back to the curb with an uncomplimentary opinion of the service of
one of Washington’s public utilities. She waited in indecision on
the corner, then opening her hand bag, took from it a scrap of paper
and consulted the name written thereon. After studying the paper for
a minute, she turned and eyed the large, red brick and stone trimmed
office building standing on the southeast corner facing the District
Court House. She had seen the Fendall Building innumerable times since
her childhood days, but never before had it held her interest.

There was a certain set air to Polly’s shoulders, which, to one
acquainted with her characteristics, indicated obstinacy, as she
crossed the street and entered the Fendall Building. She paused in the
lobby in front of the floor directory and then continued to the second
story. At the far end of the corridor she stopped before a closed door
bearing on its ground glass the title, in gold lettering:

                     =Burroughs Detective Agency=
                       ALFRED BURROUGHS, _Prop._

Polly returned to her hand bag the scrap of paper which she still held
tightly between the fingers of her left hand, took out a visiting card,
and stepped inside the office. There was no one in the room, and,
with a surprised glance about her, Polly crossed to a door evidently
leading to an inner office. The door was only partly closed, and
through the opening a familiar voice floated out to her:

“I depend upon your discretion, Mr. Burroughs. Remember, my name must
not be mentioned in connection with your employment in the case--” The
grating sound of chairs being pushed back followed, and any answer was
drowned thereby.

The hand which Polly had extended to knock against the panel of the
door fell nerveless to her side. With eyes distended to twice their
normal size, she retraced her footsteps out of the office and the
building.

When Polly reached the Hale residence she was admitted by the parlor
maid instead of the ever smiling Anna.

“Mr. Hale left word, Miss Polly, that you were to go to Mrs. Hale,”
Maud announced, helping Polly off with her coat and hat.

“Oh,” Polly paused. “Where is Mrs. Hale?”

“I don’t rightly know, miss.” Maud emerged from the depths of the hall
closet where she had hung Polly’s wraps. “Mrs. Hale came in not three
minutes ago. I think she has gone to her bedroom. Will you have some
lunch now, miss, or a little later?”

“A little later, thanks”--Polly regarded the hall clock. “I had no idea
it was nearly noon. You will find me with Mrs. Hale, Maud.”

“Very good, miss,” and they separated, the maid going to her pantry,
and Polly in search of Mrs. Hale. She found that energetic matron just
crossing the hall toward Judith’s boudoir. At the sound of Polly’s hail
she faced around.

“Is it you, Polly!” Mrs. Hale frequently asked the obvious. “My dear,
aren’t you very late to-day?”

Polly blushed at the emphasis on the adjective. “A little later than
ordinary,” she answered good-naturedly. “I will make up the time, Mrs.
Hale, and your husband’s manuscript will be completed without delay.
Maud said that your husband left word that I was to report to you.”

“Did he?” Mrs. Hale regarded her in some perplexity. “Why, last night
he decided that you were not strong enough to aid me in answering my
letters; he must have changed his mind, for he wouldn’t have sent you
to me for anything else.”

Polly’s attention had been caught by one phrase and the rest of Mrs.
Hale’s speech went unheeded.

“Your husband said I was not strong?” she questioned. “I am quite well.
What made him think otherwise?”

“Judith put the idea in his head.” Mrs. Hale led the way into the
boudoir as she spoke and selected a chair near her daughter’s desk, on
which were piled the notes of condolence, in anticipation of Richards’
answering them under Judith’s supervision. “Judith is very much worried
about your health, my dear.”

“That is very kind of Judith.” Polly slipped into the seat before
Judith’s desk at a sign from Mrs. Hale. “But your daughter is mistaken.
I am not in the least ill.”

“I am delighted to hear it.” Mrs. Hale looked at her husband’s
pretty secretary with approval. “Judith is always so positive in her
statements. I could not see that you looked run down, but she insisted
that you needed a change, and arranged with Mr. Hale to give you a
vacation.”

“Indeed!” The frigid exclamation escaped Polly unwittingly, but Mrs.
Hale apparently was oblivious of the girl’s chilly reception of
Judith’s plans.

“I am glad you don’t require a vacation,” she went on. “Mr. Hale is
particularly in need of your services, and it would be most unkind to
leave him in the lurch.”

“I have no intention of doing so, Mrs. Hale,” declared Polly with
some warmth. “Aside from the question of my not being able to afford
a vacation, gratitude to Mr. Hale, alone, would prevent me from going
away just now.” She passed one restless hand over the other. “What
possessed Judith to wish to get rid of me?”

“Now, my dear,”--Mrs. Hale held up a protesting hand--“don’t get such
a notion in your head. Judith is devoted to you; we all are, but she
imagined--you know Judith greatly depends upon her imagination--she is
so, so,”--hunting about for a word--“so shut in with her deafness, and
she is forever imagining things about people.”

“And what does she imagine about me?” asked Polly, as Mrs. Hale came to
a somewhat incoherent pause.

“That you were on the point of nervous prostration--”

Polly laughed a bit unsteadily. “Only the wealthy can afford
nervous ‘prosperity,’ and I am not in that class,” she said. “I
must work--work!” She spoke with nervous vehemence; Mrs. Hale’s
surprised expression checked her; and with an effort she regained her
self-control. “What can I do for you?”

“Answer these notes,” and Mrs. Hale laid her hand on them. “Take this
black-edged note paper,” holding out a box she had brought with her.

Mrs. Hale’s powers of observation were wool-gathering as she dictated
her answers, first reading each letter in a monotone--in itself
enough to try the steadiest nerves--before composing its answer;
then losing her place and having to be prompted, which added to her
already confused state of mind. Every expression of sympathy in the
notes brought tears in its train, and if the steady application of
Mrs. Hale’s handkerchief proved an additional barrier to the speedy
completion of her task, it also prevented her perceiving the wavering
writing of Polly’s swiftly moving pen.

“Austin was very much beloved,” she remarked. “I cannot understand, as
I told my husband over and over, I cannot understand who would have a
motive for killing him. It is beyond me.”

“Yes,” murmured Polly. She laid down her pen and rubbed her stiff
fingers. There still remained numerous notes to answer. “Dear Mrs.
Hale, let me finish answering these later on. You must be exhausted.”

“No, they must be completed now,” Mrs. Hale spoke with firmness, and
Polly, hiding her unsteady fingers under pretense of searching for
another pen among Judith’s papers, resigned herself to the situation.
“Judith suggested that I order an engraved card of acknowledgment, but
I desire an individual letter sent to each of our friends. It will
not take much more of your time,” observing Polly’s eyes stray to her
wrist-watch.

“Will you let me complete the letters this afternoon?” Polly asked. “I
have not touched my regular work for your husband, and it is nearly
your luncheon hour.”

“Luncheon will be half an hour later to-day,” responded Mrs. Hale.
“Anna is laid up and Maud asked for more time. She is not very quick at
her work, you know.”

“Anna ill! That is too bad,” exclaimed Polly. “I hope it is nothing
serious.”

“A sprained ankle.” Mrs. Hale leaned back in her chair and relaxed;
she felt the need of a little gossip, for in spite of her insistence
on completing her letters, the steady application was commencing to
wear upon her. “When anything goes wrong with Anna the whole house is
upset.”

“She is certainly a domestic treasure,” agreed Polly. “How many years
has she been with you?”

Mrs. Hale considered before answering. “She came to us at the time
Austin had typhoid fever; the trained nurse wanted a helper--what did
she call Anna?”

“Nurse’s aide?” suggested Polly.

“That was it,” and Mrs. Hale smiled. “We persuaded her to stay on as
waitress.”

“How did you manage it, Mrs. Hale?” asked Polly. Another glance at her
watch showed her that the announcement of luncheon must shortly occur,
and she wished above all not to resume answering letters of condolence.
“It has always struck me that Anna was very much above the regular
servant class.”

“So she is, my dear,” Mrs. Hale was launched on her favorite topic.
“But Mr. Hale offered her such high wages, really ridiculous wages at
the time, that it wouldn’t have been in human nature to resist his
offer. I must say for Anna that she has earned every cent we pay her.
Lately”--Mrs. Hale hesitated and surveyed the boudoir to make sure
that the hall door was closed--“lately, Anna has appeared so--so
absent-minded. Do you suppose it can be a love affair?”

“The most natural supposition in the world,” smiled Polly. “Anna is a
remarkably pretty girl.”

“So she is,” Mrs. Hale nodded her head in agreement. “I suspect it
is that new clerk in the drug store. I meet them quite often walking
together, and I called Austin’s attention to them when he was last
in Washington, just six weeks ago to-day.” Mrs. Hale looked at the
calendar hanging near Judith’s desk to be sure of her facts. “Polly, if
I tell you something will you promise to hold your tongue about it?”

Polly stared at Mrs. Hale--the latter’s tone had completely changed and
her customary irresponsible manner had become one of suppressed anxiety.

“Certainly, Mrs. Hale,” she replied, and her manner reflected the
other’s seriousness. “I will consider whatever you say as confidential.”

“First, answer this, on your word of honor,”--and Polly’s wonderment
grew as Mrs. Hale hitched her chair nearer, and her voice gained in
seriousness. “Have you come across a small piece of yellow paper; it
is folded and has the word ‘Copy’ as a watermark?” Seeing Polly’s
uncomprehending stare, she added impatiently, “The kind reporters use
in newspaper offices. Have you seen such a paper among my husband’s
correspondence?”

“No, Mrs. Hale; not as you describe it,” Polly shook a puzzled head. “I
may not have noticed the word ‘Copy,’ though. Was there anything else
to identify it?”

Mrs. Hale thought a minute, then came to a decision. “It is no matter,”
she said brusquely. “Forget I mentioned it; there is a more pressing
matter”--from her silver mesh purse she drew out a much creased letter.
“Read that,” she directed, and held it almost under Polly’s nose, “but
not aloud, read it to yourself.”

Obediently Polly took the paper and, holding it at the proper focus,
read:

  DEAR AUNT AGATHA:

  I started for San Francisco on the midnight train, so forgive this
  hasty scrawl in answer to your long letter. I will see the happy bride
  and groom on my return. Sorry Uncle Robert doesn’t like Richards. I
  found on inquiry that Richards----

Polly turned the letter over--the second sheet was missing. The young
girl looked in bewilderment at Mrs. Hale.

“Have you the end of the letter?” she asked.

“No, that is all there is to it.”

“This”--Polly turned it over again. “Why, it is not even signed.”

“But it is in Austin Hale’s handwriting,” asserted Mrs. Hale. “You know
it is, Polly.”

Polly again inspected the clear, distinctive writing. She had seen it
too often to be mistaken in identifying the chirography.

“It looks like Austin’s writing,” she qualified. “When did you receive
the letter and what does it mean?”

“Mean? We’ll come to that later,” Mrs. Hale lowered her voice to a
confidential pitch. “You see the date there,” indicating it, and Polly
nodded. “The letter was begun on Tuesday in New York, and Austin was
murdered between Tuesday midnight and one A. M. Wednesday _here in
Washington_.”

“He was----”

“Of course he was.” Patience was never Mrs. Hale’s strong point. “Now,
Polly, let us dissect this letter. On Tuesday in New York Austin states
that he is to take the midnight train for San Francisco; instead of
that he comes to Washington. Why?” And having propounded the conundrum,
Mrs. Hale sat back and contemplated Polly. There was a distinct pause
before the girl replied.

“I cannot answer your question, Mrs. Hale.” Polly avoided raising her
eyes as she turned the letter over once again and looked at the blank
side. It was a small-sized sheet of note paper of good quality, and
Austin’s large writing completely filled the first page. Polly held the
letter nearer Mrs. Hale.

“The back sheet has been torn off,” she pointed out. “See, the edges
are rough and uneven.”

“So I observed.” Mrs. Hale was a trifle nonplussed. She had anticipated
more excitement on Polly’s part, and the girl’s composure was a
surprise. That Polly was maintaining her composure through sheer will
power, Mrs. Hale was too obtuse to detect. She was convinced, however,
that Polly had been more than ordinarily attracted by Austin Hale’s
good looks and his marked attention to her charming self. It was not
in human nature, Mrs. Hale argued, that a young and penniless girl
would refuse a wealthy young man, especially not in favor of a man of
John Hale’s age. It was absurd of Joe Richards to insinuate that her
brother-in-law might have supplanted Austin in Polly’s affections.
Having once gotten an idea in her head no power on earth could
dislodge it, and Mrs. Hale, to prove her viewpoint, had decided to
investigate the mystery of Austin’s death to her own satisfaction. Mrs.
Hale thought over Polly’s conduct for several minutes, then changed her
tactics.

“Had you heard recently from Austin?” she asked, and at the direct
question Polly changed color.

“Not since this letter to you,” she replied calmly and Mrs. Hale,
intent on framing her next question, failed to analyze her answer.

“Did he make any reference to coming to Washington?”

“Only in a general way,” and before Mrs. Hale could question her
further, she added, “His letter of ten days ago said that he might be
here in April.”

“Ah!” Mrs. Hale felt that she had scored a point. “That goes to prove
that Austin’s trip here Tuesday was unexpected.”

“So unexpected that he never even wired you,” supplemented Polly, and
Mrs. Hale eyed her sharply.

“True,” she replied. “It must have been something frightfully urgent
that brought him here--to his death.”

Polly shivered slightly and laid down the letter.

“When did Austin mail this letter to you?”

“I don’t know.”

Polly glanced at her in surprise. “Was there no postmark on the
envelope?”

“There was no envelope.”

“What!” Polly half rose then dropped back in her seat. “No envelope?
Then how did you get the letter?”

Mrs. Hale looked carefully around to make sure that no one had entered
the boudoir or was within earshot. Her next remark ignored Polly’s
question.

“I have not shown Austin’s letter to my husband,” she began. “Mr.
Hale does not always view matters from my standpoint, and he might be
displeased at my having mentioned to Austin that he was disappointed in
Judith’s choice of a husband. Therefore, Polly, you will say nothing to
him.”

“Certainly not,” agreed Polly. “But about the letter--”

“Nor mention the letter to Judith,” pursued Mrs. Hale, paying no
attention to Polly’s attempt to question her. “I shall not discuss it
with Judith, for she might readily resent my writing Austin to find
out something about her husband’s career before he entered the army in
1917. This letter”--Mrs. Hale picked it up, refolded it, and replaced
it in her purse--“must remain a secret between you and me.”

“But, Mrs. Hale,”--Polly stopped her as she was about to rise--“where
did you get the letter and who tore off the last sheet?”

“It is for us to find out who tore it off and what became of it,”
declared Mrs. Hale. At last Polly was roused out of herself, and the
older woman observed with interest the two hectic spots of color in her
cheeks. “And why the sheet was torn off.”

The opening of the boudoir door caused Polly to start nervously, a
start which, in Mrs. Hale’s case became a jump, as Richards addressed
them from the doorway.

“Maud is looking for you, Mrs. Hale,” he announced. “Luncheon is
waiting for you.”

“Thanks, yes; we will come at once.” Mrs. Hale was conscious of her
flurried manner and her ingratiating smile was a trifle strained as she
faced her handsome son-in-law. “Where is Judith?”

“She telephoned that she was lunching at the Army and Navy Club.”
Richards gave no sign that he was aware of Mrs. Hale’s agitation. “Your
husband is waiting for you.”

“Run down, Joe, and tell him not to wait for me.” Mrs. Hale laid her
hand on Polly’s shoulder and gave her a slight push. “Go also, my dear.”

But Polly hung back. “Wait, Mrs. Hale,” she whispered feverishly.
“There, Major Richards is downstairs by now. Tell me quickly who gave
you Austin’s letter?”

“No one.”

“Then where did you get it?”

Mrs. Hale paused and looked carefully around--they had the boudoir to
themselves, but before she spoke Mrs. Hale took the precaution to close
the boudoir door.

“I found the letter this morning,” she stated, “in the leather pocket
of Judith’s electric car.”




CHAPTER X

BELOW STAIRS


ANNA, the waitress, found the time lagging in spite of the game of
solitaire she was playing to wile away the tedium of her enforced
idleness. She cast a resentful glance at her swollen ankle before
shuffling the cards for the thirtieth time since she had eaten her
midday meal. She had discarded the morning newspaper, and refused to
find entertainment in the cheap paper novel which the cook had brought
to her early in the morning, so her last and only solace was the pack
of playing cards.

Mrs. Hale, a New Yorker by birth, until her marriage had spent her
life in the North, and while she had quickly succumbed to the spell
which the Capital City casts over those who come to its hospitable
doors, she had never taken kindly to employing negro servants. She did
not understand the African character, and her one attempt to adjust
herself to the conditions then prevailing in domestic service in the
District of Columbia had proved a dismal failure. With her husband’s
hasty approval she had sent to New York and engaged French and English
servants.

Aside from her eccentricities, Mrs. Hale was a kind and thoughtful
mistress, and the servants remained long in her employ. Even during
the chaotic war-time conditions in Washington, with the influx of
war-workers and deserters from the domestic field, her servants
had loyally remained with her in preference to seeking Government
“positions” as elevator women and messengers.

It required a person in Anna’s state of mind to find fault with the
large, cozily furnished bedroom in which she sat. A coal fire on the
hearth added its cheerful glow, and at her elbow was an electric
reading lamp ready for instant service when the winter afternoon drew
to a close.

Anna scowled at her reflection in the mirrored paneling of the door
leading to the bathroom which she and “cook,” a Swede, shared with
Maud, the parlor maid. For nearly twenty-four hours she had been kept
captive inside the four walls of her bedroom, and her restless spirit
rebelled. Fate, in the guise of a treacherous high-heeled slipper, had
given her an ugly tumble down the kitchen stairs on her way to bed the
night before, and Dr. McLane’s assurance that she had had a lucky
escape did not assuage Anna’s sense of personal grievance nor deaden
the pain of her physical injury.

Footsteps and the clatter of dishes, as a tray was brought in slight
contact with the stair turning, came distinctly through the open door
leading to the hall. Anna’s downcast look vanished. Seizing the cards,
she was intent on laying out her favorite solitaire when Maud entered,
bearing a tray loaded with appetizing dishes.

“I’m a bit late,” she explained apologetically, as Anna swept the
playing cards into her lap to make a place on the table for the tray.
“But there’s been a pile of coming and going in and out of the house,
and it keeps a body moving.”

“Sit down and have a cup of tea with me,” suggested Anna, on whom the
extra cup and saucer on the tray had not been lost. Maud had evidently
anticipated the invitation, judging also from the amount of cinnamon
toast and thin slices of bread and butter. “I am sorry, Maud, to have
more work thrown on you just now; perhaps I can hobble downstairs
to-morrow. Dr. McLane seemed to think I might.”

“Now, you rest easy,” advised Maud earnestly. “I can handle the work
all right, and Mr. Hale said he would come down handsome for it.”

“He did!” Anna’s eyes had narrowed to thin slits, but Maud, intent on
consuming as much tea and toast as was humanly possible in a given
time, was oblivious of her facial contortions. “Mr. Hale is a generous
gentleman; you stick by _him_, Maud.”

“You bet. What he says goes,” Maud nodded enthusiastically. “Funny
household, ain’t it? A dead easy one if you are in the ‘know,’” and
she chuckled. “Let me pour you out another cup, Miss Anna,” and, not
waiting for permission, she replenished Anna’s tea, at the same time
refilling her own cup. “My, don’t cook make good toast! No wonder Major
Richards is so partial to it.”

“Is he?” Anna’s tone was dry.

“Yes, ma’am, and he’s partial to a good deal more besides.” Maud
relished an opportunity of airing her views to so superior a person as
Anna, for it was not often that she had her undivided attention. “Major
Richards knows a good-looking woman when he sees one.”

“Is that so?” indifferently, helping herself to more sugar.

“Yes, ma’am,” with emphasis. “Didn’t I see the look and smile he gave
you yesterday?”

“Tut, tut! None of that.” Anna spoke with severity. “Major Richards is
Miss Judith’s husband, a nicely spoken gentleman.”

“Sure he is.” Maud smiled broadly, nothing daunted by Anna’s frown.
“And say, ain’t Miss Judith mashed on him? That cold kind always flops
the worst when they fall in love.”

“Miss Judith isn’t the cold kind,” retorted Anna warmly. “She has
plenty of temper about her, but I will say it’s tempered with proper
pride.”

“I wonder if it was proper pride which made her quarrel so with Mr.
Austin?” Maud’s snicker always grated on Anna, and again the waitress
frowned. “Say, wasn’t his death awful?”

“Yes.” Anna sat back with a shiver. “Terrible!”

“And they dunno who done it,” pursued Maud with relish, her somewhat
nasal voice slightly raised. “Leastways that is what Detective Ferguson
told me this afternoon.”

“Was he at the house again?”

“Yes, three times.” Maud looked regretfully at the empty toast dish. “I
asked him if he wanted a bed made up for his convenience, and he was
real peevish. My, but he asks a lot of questions!”

“What about?” inquired Anna.

“Oh, where we were on Tuesday night, and if we heard anything unusual,”
answered Maud with careless candor. “Didn’t seem to believe that we
had all gone to bed the same as usual. I told him if we’d a known Mr.
Austin was to have been murdered, o’ course we’d have waited up for it,
so as to supply the police with details. That settled him for a time
and then he wanted to know when I last saw Miss Judith Tuesday night.”

“So?” Anna leaned out of her chair and took up a box of candy from the
bureau. “Help yourself, Maud. What did you say to Ferguson?”

Maud received the candy with eyes which sparkled as Anna put the box
conveniently in front of her. Her craving for sweets had frequently
earned her a reprimand from Mrs. Hale when that dame caught her in the
act of purloining candy from the stock kept in the dining room.

“I told Ferguson that Miss Judith was undressing in her bedroom when I
went upstairs.” Maud’s speech was somewhat impeded by a large caramel.
“Then he wanted to know when we first heard o’ the murder--silly
question, wasn’t it?”

“Very,” agreed Anna. “Considering he came upstairs and joined us just
after Mrs. Hale had broken the news of Mr. Austin’s death. Men are
silly creatures.”

“Some of ’em are,” amended Maud. “I never would call Mr. Robert Hale
silly. Say, Miss Anna,”--and Maud hitched her chair close to the
waitress--“do you s’pose he knows anything about the courting that went
on between Miss Polly and his brother?”

“There isn’t anything that escapes Mr. Hale’s notice,” Anna responded
dryly.

“But Miss Polly was mighty sly about it,” argued Maud. “Mr. Austin
caught her once, though, and my, didn’t he flare up!” Her eyes grew
bigger at the recollection. “I wonder if he was smart enough to know
Miss Polly, for all her appearing frankness, was playing father and son
off against each other.”

“Men never know anything where a pretty woman’s concerned,” replied
Anna scornfully. “Miss Judith knew what was going on though, and”--she
lowered her voice to confidential tones--“it’s my belief that her Uncle
John used his influence with the family to get her sent on that visit
to Japan.”

“And there she met Major Richards.” Maud selected another piece of
candy. “My, ain’t Fate funny sometimes!” Her companion agreed, and Maud
munched the milk chocolates with silent enjoyment. Then her active mind
went off on a tangent as she caught sight of the playing cards still
reposing in a disorderly heap in Anna’s lap. “Mr. Hale got in one of
his tantrums this morning.”

“He did?” Anna put down her cup from which she had been slowly sipping
her strong black tea. “What about?”

“He said one of his playing cards was missing from the pack he keeps
in the library, and he just as much as asked me if I had stolen it.”
Maud sniffed. “If he hadn’t been so nice about my wages and my room
wasn’t so comfortable, and you and cook being so agreeable, I’d a given
notice.”

“Oh, pshaw! Mr. Hale doesn’t mean half he says,” Anna hastened to
smooth down Maud’s ruffled feelings. “He forgets the cause of his
tantrums ten minutes afterward. What’s the use of paying attention to
them? His wife never does.”

“I ain’t his wife,” objected Maud. “And he didn’t forget this tantrum,
though it was about such a measly little thing, but came right back
after lunch and asked me had I found the card in any one’s room. He
was put out when I told him no.”

“It is too bad, Maud,” exclaimed Anna, who had followed her story with
gratifying attention. “Mr. Hale shouldn’t worry you when you have extra
work with me laid up here. Why not speak to Mrs. Hale?”

“Not me!” broke in Maud hastily. “I ain’t hankering to start a family
ruction. Don’t you worry, Miss Anna, I fixed it,” Maud smiled slyly.
“I went up to Miss Judith’s boudoir with the C. & P. man to mend her
branch telephone this afternoon, and I just happened to see a pack o’
playing cards lying on Major Richards’ dresser; their backs were just
the same as Mr. Hale’s pack in the library, so I sneaked out the Knave
o’ Hearts. After the telephone man left, I gave the card to Mr. Hale.
And say, what do you s’pose he did?”

Anna shook her head. “I can’t guess. Do go on.”

“Well, first he gave that funny giggle o’ his, then he slips the card
in his pocket, and asks me where I got it.” Maud paused dramatically.
“When I said I found it on Major Richards’ dresser he looked at me
kinda funny and”--a violent sneeze interrupted the recital--“then he
gave me a raise in wages.”

“Bless me!” Anna ejaculated admiringly. “That was smart work, Maud.”

Her companion smiled deprecatingly. “’Tain’t nothing to what I can
do when I set my mind to it,” she replied. “I just happened on Major
Richards’ cards. How’s your ankle?”

The waitress started at the abruptness of the question.

“It is not so painful,” she said, and glanced significantly at the
clock on the mantel. “Isn’t it ’most time for you to see about setting
the table for dinner?”

“No; the family’s dining out to-night,” rejoined Maud, “so that me
and cook can rest up. Mrs. Hale is pretty much of a fool, but she
is considerate of us. There are times,” added Maud in a burst of
confidence, “when I feel darn sorry for her.”

“Don’t let your sympathies get the better of your judgment,” warned
Anna. “Mr. and Mrs. Hale are--well, you might say ‘discordantly’ happy.”

Maud wrinkled her brows. “If you are hinting they like to fuss, you are
dead right,” she acknowledged. “There’s one thing odd I’ve noticed
to-day”--She paused to contemplate herself in the mirrored door with
inward satisfaction; the simple black dress on her slight, trim figure
and neat white collar and cuffs, which Mrs. Hale insisted should be
worn by her servants, was becoming.

“What were you noticing to-day?” asked Anna, growing impatient as the
pause became prolonged.

“That Mrs. Hale and Miss Polly Davis were getting as thick as thieves,”
explained Maud. “I ain’t never seen them so loving.”

“Is that so?” Anna stroked her cheek reflectively. “Mrs. Hale feels
Miss Judith’s marriage more than she is willing to allow, I believe,
and she’s just looking ’round to find somebody to ‘mother.’”

“It’s a funny deal her picking on Miss Polly for that,” laughed Maud as
she arranged the tea dishes on the tray preparatory to departure. “D’ye
know, as poor as I am, I’d give a month’s wages to know who had a hand
in killing Mr. Austin.” She paused and placed her lips against Anna’s
right ear. “Them bloody shears Mr. Ferguson is forever exhibiting never
belonged to Miss Judith,” she whispered, “but Miss Polly’s are missing
from her desk.”

Down in Robert Hale’s den Polly Davis stopped transcribing his
manuscript notes to stare at three letters which she spread before her.
She read them in rotation for at least the seventh time, then settled
back in her chair and, resting her weight on its arms, contemplated the
notes.

The first was but a scrawl:

  DEAREST:

  You must dine with me to-night. I will not take a refusal and will call
  at the usual hour.

                                             Your devoted lover,
                                                  JOHN.

The second letter was from Judith:

  Do not hesitate to use the enclosed check for your contemplated trip.
  Return the loan at your convenience, and let me know if you should need
  more.

  Ever, dear Polly, faithfully yours,

                                                  JUDITH.

“My contemplated trip,” quoted Polly softly. The haggard lines in her
face were accentuated by the merciless electric light which beat down
from a lamp but a few feet above her typewriter desk. “Judith, are you
mad!”

Slowly her eyes turned to the third note. It had no commencement other
than the words:

  In recognition of your valuable services I am increasing your salary
  fifty dollars per month. Please arrange to give me additional hours
  daily.

                                             Yours, etc.,
                                                  ROBERT HALE.




CHAPTER XI

THE THREAT


FROM their corner table Judith watched, with total lack of interest,
the gay throng which filled the public dining room at Rauscher’s,
although the scene was one to arrest attention. The smartly gowned
women, the foreign attachés in their gay uniforms in contrast to the
khaki-clad army officers and the somber evening dress of numerous
civilians, formed an attractive center for the mirrored walls and
shaded lights. Judith’s inattention was a source of displeasure to her
mother whose efforts to sustain the conversation had failed.

“Really, Judith,” she remonstrated, “it is very annoying of you to make
me repeat my remarks.”

“I beg your pardon, Mother.” Judith awoke from dreary thoughts. “I
did not mean to be rude, but our--our mourning”--glancing down at her
black dress--“seems so incongruous here. We should have found a less
conspicuous place to dine.”

“Tut! you are supersensitive; we must eat and why not here? We are not
giving a dinner.” Mrs. Hale paused to bow to an acquaintance. “Robert
and your husband went to the club so that we would not have even an
appearance of a party. Why, there is Frank Latimer. Wave to him,
Judith.”

Not waiting for her suggestion to be followed, Mrs. Hale signaled
vigorously with her fan and succeeded in catching the eye of the
attentive major-domo who, guessing her meaning, directed Latimer’s
attention to her table. Mrs. Hale greeted the stockbroker with a
cordial smile.

“Join us, Frank,” she exclaimed, as their waitress placed a chair for
him. Latimer cast a doubtful eye at an adjoining table.

“That is my habitual place,” he explained. “I dine here every night.”

“Fortunate man, with no domestic problems,” sighed Mrs. Hale.
“Really, Anna could not have selected a more unfortunate time to fall
downstairs--or was it upstairs, Judith?”

“I don’t know, Mother.” Judith had changed color at Latimer’s approach
as memory of her interview in his office, the conversation she had
overheard the night before, and her letter explaining the bond
transaction recurred to her. “Anna is so seldom ill that we can
forgive her this once.” She raised grave eyes to Latimer. “Do dine with
us, Frank.”

Latimer had only opportunity to murmur his thanks as Mrs. Hale took
possession of the situation and claimed his undivided attention.
As the meal progressed he stole a look now and then at Judith. Her
preoccupation was evident and the furtive glances she cast about the
big dining room were indicative of her nervous condition. Latimer’s
anxiety grew. Would Mrs. Hale never give him a chance for a private
word with Judith? After the receipt of her note that morning he had
tried to write an answer, but, after a vain attempt to crystallize his
thoughts into black ink, he had thrown down his pen and applied to that
mixed blessing, the telephone, only to be told that Judith was not at
home.

If Judith divined his desire to talk with her she gave no sign of it.
Latimer’s anxiety was tinged with vexation. Was Judith deliberately
avoiding every effort he made to drag her into the conversation? His
hot temper was gaining the upper hand when Mrs. Hale unconsciously gave
him the opening he had been hoping for.

“How is the stock market?” she asked, and not waiting for an answer,
added, “Did you purchase those Liberty Bonds Robert spoke of last
week?”

“Yes.” Latimer turned determinedly to Judith. “Your husband sold your
Troy Valve bonds at somewhat of a sacrifice.”

Mrs. Hale caught the words and looked at her daughter in open
consternation.

“Judith! You haven’t parted with the bonds your grandfather left you?”
she exclaimed.

“Yes.” Judith tossed down her napkin and pushed back her chair. “Joe
and I decided that this was the time to invest in Liberty Bonds.” Her
charming smile disarmed criticism. “Besides, industrials are dangerous
investments.”

“Fiddlesticks!” ejaculated Mrs. Hale with indignant emphasis. “You
know what General Hale thought of his Valve bonds and how carefully he
portioned them out among us in his will. Your father will be seriously
displeased, Judith.”

“Not when I tell him that the bonds are already depreciating in value,”
responded Judith quietly. “They are depreciating, Frank, are they not?”
Her emphasis on the verb arrested Latimer’s attention and quickly he
caught his cue.

“Liberty Bonds are a better investment,” he stated, “especially just
now. You”--he smiled at Mrs. Hale--“are putting your money in Liberty
Bonds.”

But Mrs. Hale was not appeased. “I am not selling valuable bonds,” she
retorted. “The money I invest in Liberty Bonds is the income from other
sources. What did you realize on your bonds, Judith?”

Judith’s brow wrinkled in thought, then she turned to Frank. “I have a
poor head for figures,” she admitted softly. “What did Joe get for the
bonds, Frank?”

Latimer eyed her thoughtfully. “We paid Joe $1,275, less commission.
The bonds bring $125 each.”

“Is that all!” And Mrs. Hale’s eyebrows rose in displeasure. “What
a wretched time to sell. I shall remonstrate with your husband for
permitting you to part with the bonds.”

“You will do nothing of the sort.” The girl’s tone brought a hot flush
to her mother’s cheeks, but there was that in Judith’s expression
which checked her angry rejoinder. “Please, Mother, remember that I am
independent as far as my fortune is concerned, and am my own mistress.”

Mrs. Hale considered her for a minute, then to Latimer’s horror,
for he had a shy man’s distaste of scenes, her lower lip quivered
suggestively, while her pale blue eyes grew moist.

“What a way to address your mother, Judith,” she said reproachfully.
“I, who have your best interests at heart. It is most unkind.”

“I had no intention of being unkind.” Judith laid her hand for a second
gently on her mother’s shoulder. “Only, please do not discuss my
affairs with my husband; he also”--she looked squarely at Latimer--“has
my best interests at heart and I can rely upon his honest judgment.”

Latimer bowed. “Joe is no fool,” he remarked dryly. “Don’t worry,
Mrs. Hale, I guarantee that Judith is quite right in the stand she is
taking, and”--again he bowed--“I admire her for it.”

“You have always approved of woman suffrage,” grumbled Mrs. Hale, as
she rose and led the way down the aisle to the entrance to the dining
room. “But take a word of advice from an older woman, Judith; it is not
the wife who asserts her independence who gains her wishes, it is she
who concedes the little things of life who controls the big issues. To
rule, a woman must never show she rules.”

She paused to speak a complimentary word to the major-domo, and Judith,
striding ahead down the short staircase, discovered that Latimer was
keeping step with her. Before he could voice his thoughts, she had
formulated her line of action.

“If you have any stock deals,” she said in an undertone, “do tip me
off. Hush, not a word; I don’t wish Mother to know I am playing the
market, here she comes.”

His ideas in a whirl, Latimer assisted them into their limousine just
as a touring car drove up to the curb and stopped with a grinding of
brakes which echoed down the street. A second more and John Hale had
flung himself out of the car and dashed over to the limousine. A rapid
survey showed him that the only occupants of the car were Mrs. Hale and
Judith.

“Where have you left Polly?” he demanded.

“Left her?” Mrs. Hale’s voice showed her astonishment. “Nowhere; Polly
has not been with us.”

“Not with you?” Her brother-in-law stared at her. “Didn’t she dine with
you?”

“She did not,” tartly. “What gave you that impression?”

“Mrs. Davis told me that Polly telephoned she was with you.” Hale
turned almost savagely toward Judith. “Where is she?”

“I do not know.” Judith eyed him in wonderment. It was not often that
she saw him discomposed in manner. He moved slightly and the light
from the limousine’s lamps showed his features more clearly. “Surely,
Uncle John, you are not worried about her whereabouts?”

John Hale passed a nervous hand over his chin. “Polly was to dine
with me,” he explained. “I waited at her home, and finally her mother
returned from dining with a neighbor and gave me Polly’s message. I
remembered you were to dine here, so chased you up. You are sure you
don’t know where she is?”

“Of course we don’t,” chimed in Mrs. Hale. “Bless me, John, why worry?
Polly is quite old enough to take care of herself, and she is not
likely to get lost in Washington.”

“Lost? Of course not,” with rough emphasis. “I have a message for Polly
which must be delivered. Have you any idea where she is dining, Judith?”

Judith thought a moment before replying. “Possibly she is with the
Wards in Chevy Chase,” she suggested. “I recall Polly had a telephone
talk with Kate this afternoon.”

“Thanks.” John Hale swung around and caught Latimer by the shoulder.
Until that moment he had ignored the presence of the little
stockbroker.

“Drive out to Chevy Chase, Frank,” he urged. “Come, man, don’t keep
me waiting,” and, not heeding Latimer’s remonstrances, he hurried him
toward his car. Then, as the latter hung back with the reiterated
statement that he had an important business engagement, he interrupted
him with an oath.

“Cut it out, Frank,” John Hale spoke between clenched teeth. “I’ll
explain later; jump in.” Scarcely waiting for Latimer to do so, he
climbed in behind the wheel and, turning the car up Connecticut Avenue,
he speeded up that thoroughfare.

Latimer rode in perturbed silence, occasionally stealing a glance at
his companion’s set, stern features. He had followed John Hale in his
college days with doglike fidelity, and the habit had clung through
their years of faithful friendship. As the car left the city limits
behind and tore along the road leading to the fashionable suburb of
Chevy Chase, Latimer broke the protracted silence.

“What’s to pay, John?” he asked.

John Hale waited until they had overtaken a trolley, then slowed down
the car’s speed almost to a crawl.

“God knows!” he responded, and his voice was not quite steady. “Frank,
I--I’m miserable--miserable,” and Frank, after one glance at his face,
forebore to question further.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Hale, from the window of her limousine, watched John Hale’s abrupt
departure with astonishment not unmixed with resentment.

“Upon my word, Judith, your uncle grows more impossible every day,” she
remarked, and, meeting with no comment from her daughter, she picked up
the speaking tube and called to her chauffeur, “Home.”

On reaching there, Mrs. Hale changed her mind with characteristic
suddenness.

“I’ll run down to the club and pick up your father,” she said as she
hopped back into the limousine. “I remember now that he left word we
were to call for him. Won’t you come, Judith?”

Judith, halfway up the steps leading to the front door, shook her head.

“No thanks, Mother, I have several letters to write,” and with a wave
of her hand she hurried inside the house. Maud, who had waited in some
uncertainty until she saw the limousine drive off with Mrs. Hale seated
in it, closed the front door.

“Can I do anything for you, Mrs. Richards?” she asked, as Judith paused
to look at several notes lying on the hall table. None was addressed
to her and she laid them back again.

“No, Maud, not a thing,” she replied. “Has Major Richards returned?”

“Not yet, ma’am.” Maud, catching a furtive look at herself in the long
mirror on the wall, rearranged her cap to a more becoming angle. “Is
it too early to take your pitcher of ice water to your boudoir, ma’am?
Anna said you had one generally.”

“It is not too early.” Judith turned toward the circular staircase.
“How is Anna?”

“Much better, ma’am; she practiced walking around after dinner and got
on first rate,”--Maud lingered a moment--“not but what I warned her to
be careful; ’tain’t any use of taking chances with a banged-up ankle.”

“True,” agreed Judith absently, and, unloosening her coat, she went
upstairs. Instead of going at once to her boudoir she hurried down the
hall to her father’s den, and as she entered it Polly Davis looked up
from the manuscript she was copying and stopped her machine.

“You--here!” Judith halted abruptly.

“Yes.” Polly pushed her chair away from the typewriter. “Why not?” The
question was put with studied insolence and Judith’s eyes widened. “I
am working on your father’s manuscript.”

“But at this hour--”

“I am working overtime.” Polly flipped a note in her direction. “Your
father here asks me to give him ‘additional service.’” She smiled and
shrugged her shoulders. “Any objections?”

“Objections? No.” Judith’s manner retained its old friendliness, and
she ignored the girl’s manifest hostility.

“Then why question my presence here?”

“I do not question your right to be here.” Judith chose a chair near
Polly. “I have just seen Uncle John--”

“Well?” as Judith stopped.

“Uncle John was told by your mother that you were dining with us.”

“Pardon me,”--Polly’s interruption was curtly spoken, although the
words chosen were politeness itself--“Mr. Hale was informed that I was
with you.”

“But you were not.”

“In one sense, yes; in another I am with you while working in this
household.” Again Polly shrugged her shoulders. “Of course I am not
responsible for whatever interpretation you and he put on my message to
my mother.”

Judith regarded her for a moment in silence.

“What is your object in splitting straws?” she inquired. “Wait--Uncle
John understood you were to dine with him, then thought you were with
us, and he now believes you are with the Wards in Chevy Chase and is
motoring there, and--on returning home, I find you here.”

“Your uncle asked me to dine with him, but I never accepted his
invitation,” replied Polly. “Frankly, I preferred to wait here and see
you.”

“Why didn’t you tell me, Polly, and I would have remained at home,”
exclaimed Judith. “Have you had any dinner?” with a hasty glance about
in quest of a tray.

“I dined at the Pastry Shop.” Polly leaned back in her chair and
watched Judith. “I asked for you before I left this afternoon, but you
had not returned from your drive, and so I came back an hour ago. What
was your object in writing this note?” and leaning forward Polly placed
Judith’s note and check in her lap.

Judith did not touch the papers.

“The note is self-explanatory,” she stated. “I hope the vacation will
restore your health.”

“My health is quite robust, thank you,” dryly. “Let us have done with
camouflage, Judith, and be honest with each other. What is your object
in wishing to get rid of me?”

“I have no such desire.”

Polly’s lip curled in scorn. “You wish to get me away from Washington,
away from this house,” she charged. “Why?”

The two girls contemplated each other, but while Judith was pale, a
feverish color heightened the sparkle in Polly’s over-bright eyes. When
Judith spoke it was with deliberation.

“I suggested that you go on a vacation,” she said, “for your own good.”

“Indeed!” Polly’s laugh ended in a sneer. “Are you quite sure your
consideration is not misdirected?”

“Quite sure.” Judith’s temper was gaining the upper hand in spite of
her endeavor to keep it under control. “Once before you ignored my
advice; you know with what results.” She paused. “Austin’s death--”

“Well?” Polly leaned forward, both hands on the arms of her chair.

Instead of completing her sentence Judith placed the note and her check
on Polly’s typewriter.

“You had better arrange to leave to-morrow,” she said softly.

“I won’t.” Polly’s voice rang out clearly. “I don’t know whom you are
trying to shield, but you shan’t drive me away--you shan’t--you shan’t!”

“Polly,”--Judith’s manner compelled the hysterical girl to gain some
hold on the remnant of her self-control--“you have forced this scene; I
have tried to avoid it by supplying you with a way out.” She pointed to
the check. “I was the first person to find Austin’s body--”

“Ah! You admit it.” Polly’s voice rose almost to a scream. “Why haven’t
you told that to the police?”

“Because of my desire to shield you,” Judith stated calmly.

“To shield me!” Polly half rose, resting her weight on the arms of her
chair.

“Exactly.” Judith stood up and pulled her coat about her shoulders. “In
addition to my silence, I took from Austin’s body a trinket--”

“Yes, go on”--Polly watched her fascinated, as she took a step toward
the door.

“Your conduct to-night forces me to use a threat.” Judith spoke in a
monotone and slowly the color ebbed from Polly’s cheeks. “Unless you
leave Washington within twenty-four hours, I shall give the trinket to
the police.”

“What--” Polly moistened her parched lips. “What is the trinket?”

“A Mizpah locket. Good-night,” and without a backward glance Judith
hurried away.




CHAPTER XII

THE THEFT


JUDITH had not inherited her mother’s fondness for being waited
upon and therefore she had never employed a personal maid. After
her interview with Polly she went immediately to her bedroom and it
required but a brief time to put away her coat and scarf. In removing
the latter from around her neck, its delicate mesh caught in the
diamond horseshoe pin, her only ornament, which she wore in the front
of her evening dress. In striving to free the scarf she discovered to
her dismay that one of the diamonds was missing from the horseshoe.

The pin had been her husband’s wedding gift. Throwing down the scarf,
Judith bent anxiously and peered at the carpet, but it was difficult
to see so small an object against its soft coloring. Dropping to her
knees, she felt about until her fingers touched a hard substance. A
look at it disclosed the missing diamond, and with an exclamation of
pleasure and relief Judith rose, folded the stone in a piece of tissue
paper and placed it with the diamond pin in her jewelry box. In doing
so she caught sight of a gold locket safely ensconced in the bottom
of the box under several bracelets and chains. Judith considered the
locket gravely, then closed and locked the jewelry box just as her name
was called in the boudoir. With heightened color, she hastened across
the bedroom and joined her husband.

“I did not hear you enter, Joe,” she exclaimed as he held out both
hands to her. “How does it happen that you returned so early? I thought
you planned to run in and see Dr. McLane about that troublesome cough
of yours?”

“Oh, that can wait until morning,” lightly. “I came back to be with
you.” He placed a morris chair for her before the hearth, where a coal
fire burned fitfully, and perched himself on the chair’s broad mahogany
arm. “I haven’t seen you alone to-day.” His voice was tinged with
reproach.

Judith slipped a hand inside his. “I did not mean to neglect you,”
she said. “But Mother and certain business matters claimed a lot of
attention. Why,”--turning her head as it rested against the cushion of
the high-backed chair--“why did you volunteer to dine with Father at
the club and not come with us to Rauscher’s?”

“It was your mother’s plan, not mine.” Richard laughed softly. “My
first impressions of your mother have radically changed.”

“In what way?”

“I thought her all fuss and feathers, but underneath it she has a will
of iron.” Richards’ smile grew rueful. “Does your father ever oppose
her wishes?”

It was Judith’s turn to smile. “Not if he can help it,” she admitted.
“Father is something of a diplomat as far as Mother is concerned.
Perhaps you have noticed it.”

“Yes.” Richards stared into the fire; he had become grave. “Somehow,
dearest, I do not believe your father likes me. Oh, he’s been polite
enough,”--as she was about to speak--“but there is something in his
manner,--well,”--with another rueful smile--“it couldn’t by any stretch
of the imagination be termed cordial at any time, and lately”--he
hesitated--“the dislike is more apparent.”

Judith’s pretty color, which had come when she found him waiting for
her in the boudoir, had waned. “Lately?” she queried. “Do you mean
within the last few days?”

“Yes; to be exact, since Austin’s Hale’s mur--death,” he caught himself
up. “Don’t mind, darling,” observing the shadows which had gathered in
her eyes. “I am sorry I mentioned the subject. Your father, like the
rest of us, is upset by the tragedy--we will all return to normal when
the mystery is solved.”

“When?” Judith contemplated her well-fitting suède slipper and the
embroidered silk stockings just peeping beneath her skirt. “Have the
police advanced any new theories?”

“Only that the crime was premeditated.”

Judith looked up. “Premeditated? Then some one must have known of
Austin’s plans to come here Tuesday night.” She drew in her breath
sharply. “Some bitter enemy.” She again looked directly up at Richards
and found him gazing in the fire. “What is your theory?”

“My theory? I hardly knew--know anything of Austin, therefore it is
difficult for me to form a theory.” Judith took silent note of his
quickly covered confusion, and her hand, still resting in his, moved
uneasily. “Was Austin the type of man to have an implacable enemy?”

“N--no,” Judith drawled out the word. “He sometimes had a nasty way of
speaking, which used to annoy Uncle John; but he was generally very
agreeable, and some people found him fascinating.”

“Meaning women?” Judith did not reply at once, and Richards’ eyes
narrowed. “You think that Austin was killed on impulse?”

“So it appears to me,” she confessed and suppressed a shudder.

There was a brief silence, then Richards roused himself. “I agree with
you,” he said. “The nature of the weapon used proves that.”

“The shears?” Judith glanced up and then looked quickly away. “You
think Austin was stabbed with the shears?”

“Evidently, for there was no other weapon.”

“No other weapon has been found,” Judith corrected him softly. “The
murderer may have carried it off with him.”

“True,” acknowledged Richards, “but then how came the shears to have
blood on them? For what purpose were they used?”

Judith’s breathing seemed suspended for an infinitesimal second, and
several minutes elapsed before she spoke.

“I am not good at solving problems.” She twirled his seal ring, which
she had given him, about on his finger. “Have you heard Uncle John’s
theory that Austin was killed by a burglar?”

Richards regarded her fixedly for a minute. “Is that so!” he
exclaimed. “And what leads him to suspect a burglar?”

“Austin’s gold watch is missing.” Judith felt his arm slip down about
her shoulders, and his weight rested against the cushioned back of her
chair. “Also, Father found some papers missing from his safe.”

“He did--when?” The question shot from Richards.

“Sometime Thursday. I don’t know exactly when.” Judith caught his
intent gaze, and while her heart beat a bit more rapidly, she continued
to look directly at him.

“Has he notified the police?”

“I presume so. He was talking to Detective Ferguson yesterday just
before dinner.” Judith’s voice sounded a trifle strained in her own
ears, but apparently Richards took no notice. His gaze had shifted
again to the fireplace.

“When Mr. Hale first examined the safe he declared that its contents
were intact,” he remarked. “Your news is surprising, Judith. It may
be that poor Austin found a burglar rifling the safe and was killed
by him--it is a reasonable hypothesis in the light of your father’s
discovery. You said something else was missing--”

“Yes, Austin’s watch. It was a valuable heirloom inherited from his
grandfather, and he always carried it with him. The watch has not been
found either on his body or in his room.”

“But, Judith, it may be among his effects in New York,” Richards
suggested. “Your mother told me that he had quarters at the Yale Club
and kept a trunk there.”

Judith shook her head. “Uncle John talked to the steward of the club on
the long distance telephone, and a search was made, but the watch could
not be found.” Abruptly she changed the subject. “Will you please hand
me a glass of water, Joe?”

Richards had started for the door when she called him back. “Don’t
go downstairs, the ice water is here,” she looked about the boudoir.
“There, Maud put it over by the bedroom door.”

Richards filled a glass for her and replacing it a moment later on the
table, he poured out a glass for himself and almost gulped it down.
Crossing the room, he again seated himself on the arm of Judith’s chair.

“Judith,” he began, “a strange thing happened to-day and I want to tell
you about it.”

“Yes, dear,” she prompted gently, as he paused. “Go on.”

But Richards evidently found some difficulty in continuing, for
several seconds elapsed before he spoke again.

“The treasurer of the Metropolis Bank called me up this afternoon and
asked me to stop in and see him,” he went on. “And when I reached the
bank I was informed that ten thousand dollars had been placed to my
credit.”

“Good gracious!” Judith clapped her hands. “Why, Joe!”

“Exactly--_why_?” dryly. “Why should any one do such a thing? I have
no near relatives, no one under obligation to me, and so I told the
bank treasurer, but he refused to disclose the donor’s name or by whose
authority the bank had acted. He did assure me that it was perfectly
proper for me to use the money, stating that it was a gift without a
string tied to it and that the money is legally mine.”

“But that is splendid!” exclaimed Judith. “Are you not elated?”

“No, only puzzled,” Richards admitted slowly. “I have racked my brain,
Judith, to find out where that money could have come from, and”--he
held her close to him, his eyes scanning her face. “Did _you_ give it
to me?”

Slowly her eyes fell before his ardent look and a telltale blush
mantled her cheeks.

“Yes,” she murmured, and for a second clung to him, then pushed
him gently from her. Suddenly he raised her hands and kissed them
passionately.

“Judith,”--he steadied his voice before continuing--“I can never thank
you, never. Therefore it is all the harder to tell you that I cannot
take your money.”

“But you must!” she exclaimed in alarm. “Dear, I am wealthy in my own
right and this money is some I had lying idle in a savings bank. It is
no sacrifice for me to give it to you.”

“I would like to think that it is,” he murmured wistfully. “Tell me,
dearest, what put it into your head to make me so generous a present?”

“I--eh--” Judith’s native honesty would not permit an evasion. “I heard
that you had met with reverses in business, Joe.”

Richards looked at her long and intently. “You heard?” he repeated.
“Where?”

Judith raised a protesting finger. “‘Ask me no questions--’” she
quoted, “you know the old saw, Joe”; and before he had time to frame
another question, she asked reproachfully. “Why did you not come to me
at once, Joe? I would gladly have helped.”

A dull red flush mounted almost to Richards’ forehead and he averted
his eyes from her steady gaze.

“I can’t borrow from a woman, Judith--even the very best and dearest
woman in the world,” he confessed. “Keep your money, sweetheart. My
financial embarrassment was only temporary, but”--his voice deepened
with emotion--“I prize your loyalty above all earthly things. Judith, I
shall strive to be worthy of you,” and dropping on one knee he kissed
her hand with fervor.

Judith saw his shapely head and fine features through a mist of tears.
Her faith in him should stand all tests. In spite of what she had
learned of the stolen bonds, he must be innocent--he was worthy of her
trust, her love. Impulsively she leaned nearer and he caught her in
passionate embrace.

The clock had ticked away fully an hour when Judith awoke to the time.

“It is almost midnight,” she exclaimed reproachfully and rose in haste.
As she walked across the boudoir her attention was attracted by a
package of addressed and stamped envelopes. “Oh, I forgot to give these
to Maud to mail first thing in the morning, and they are important.”

“Let me have them.” Richards snatched them up. “There is a post box in
front of the house; I’ll be right back.” And he hastened down the hall
to the circular staircase.

Not waiting to lower any of the lights, Judith went into her bedroom
and started to undress. It took but a moment to slip on her wrapper,
and she was about to comb her hair when the disorderly appearance of
her dressing table startled her. Her toilet articles were tossed hither
and yon.

Judith’s hand sought her jewelry box; the key was already turned in the
lock. Tossing back the lid, she gazed inside--the box was empty.

A half-strangled cry escaped from her white lips and Richards heard it
as he entered the boudoir; a second more and he was by her side.

“See--my jewels--they are gone,” she gasped. “Your horseshoe, even,
Joe.”

“Hush, my darling, I’ll find it or get you another.” Alarmed by her
pallor, he picked up a bottle of smelling salts which stood on the
dressing table and held it open before her. “I will replace the
jewelry.”

“You can’t replace the locket.”

“The locket!” Richards changed color. “Have you lost the locket?”

In her agitation she failed to catch his question.

“My jewelry was here, every piece, and the locket, when I went in to
speak to you, Joe,” she declared. “I added the horseshoe just before
you called me.”

Richards gazed at her in dumfounded silence. “What is that?” he asked.
“You left your jewelry in that box when you came in to talk to me in
the boudoir a little while ago?”

“Yes; I can swear to it.”

Richards sped to the closet door and flung it open. Only wearing
apparel rewarded his search. A glance at the windows showed that they
were closed and locked on the inside, the bathroom and dressing room
beyond were empty! Convinced of that, he turned back to Judith who had
sunk into the chair before the dressing table.

“Was any one with you in this room?” he asked.

“No, I was alone.” Judith passed her hand dazedly before her eyes, then
again inspected the empty box. “Every piece of jewelry is gone,” she
stated, “and the box was full two hours ago.”

“Are you sure, Judith?”

“Absolutely certain--the jewelry was stolen within the last two hours.”

Richards looked first at her and then at the empty box.

“How can that be?” he asked. “There is no entrance to this bedroom
except through the boudoir--and you and I, Judith, have been in the
boudoir for the past two hours.”




CHAPTER XIII

“MIZPAH”


DETECTIVE FERGUSON completed his tour of the suite of three rooms and
bath which Judith and her husband occupied and took up his station
in the boudoir. At Richards’ earnest solicitation she had notified
Police Headquarters of the robbery and Ferguson had been detailed to
investigate it. He was followed into the room an instant later by
Judith who watched him inspect her empty jewelry box with the aid of a
magnifying glass. Quickly he made his test for finger prints, but she
judged from the negative shake of his head and his puzzled frown that
the results were barren.

“About what hour did the robbery occur last night?”

Judith started at the abrupt question, for Ferguson, recalling her
deafness and forgetful of the cleverly concealed earphone which she
wore continually, raised his voice almost to a bellow.

“It must have been between half-past nine and half-past eleven last
night,” she answered. “You need not speak so loudly, Mr. Ferguson; I
can hear quite well if you use your ordinary tone.”

“Beg pardon, I’m sure,” and Ferguson sunk his voice to its normal
pitch. “When did you last see your jewelry?”

“Just after taking off my wraps upon my return from dining at
Rauscher’s,” Judith explained, “I opened the box to put away the
diamond horseshoe pin which I had been wearing.”

“And your other jewelry was then in the box?”

“Yes.”

“Where were you between half-past nine and half-past eleven?”

“Here, in this boudoir.”

“Any one with you?”

“My husband, Major Richards.”

“Any one else?”

“No.”

Ferguson blinked at her solemnly for a minute, then rising, stepped to
the bedroom door and glanced inside.

“This is the only entrance to your bedroom,” he remarked, turning to
the silent girl. “How could a thief enter your room while you and your
husband were here, and you remain unaware of it?”

“I am sure I don’t know.” Judith shook her head in bewilderment. “I lay
awake nearly all night puzzling over the enigma.”

Ferguson surveyed the boudoir from every angle before again addressing
her.

“Where were you sitting?” he inquired.

Judith crossed the boudoir toward the fireplace and wheeled the morris
chair forward until it stood in the exact spot of the night before.

“I sat here,” she explained, “and my husband was perched on the chair
arm.”

Ferguson walked over and sat down in the chair.

“I presume you and Major Richards were absorbed in conversation,” he
grumbled, and not giving her an opportunity to answer, continued, “But
you both had a good view of the boudoir door leading into the hall,
through which every one has to enter. Any one entering last night would
have had to come directly in your line of vision. Was the door open or
closed?”

“Open.”

“All the way open?” he persisted.

“The door stood just as it is now,” declared Judith, after studying it
a moment. A look outside convinced Ferguson that a person in the hall
would be unable to see what was transpiring in the boudoir at the angle
at which the door stood ajar.

“A person could enter without having to push it farther open,” he
announced. “Does the door squeak?” Springing to his feet he answered
his own question by moving the door to and fro. “Nary a squeak,” he
commented, and drawing out his memorandum book sat down near Judith.
“Now, madam, was it your custom to keep the jewelry box on your
dressing table?”

“When I was in my bedroom or in here, yes,” replied Judith. “At other
times I kept it in the drawer of my bureau.”

“Was the key in the lock of the box?”

“Yes.” Observing his smile, Judith frowned. “I do not usually leave the
key in the lock, but my husband called to me and I joined him here,
leaving the box standing on my dressing table.”

“I see.” Ferguson stared reflectively at her for a few seconds. “Ever
had anything stolen before?”

“Never any jewelry,” Judith spoke with unusual rapidity. “Nor any
money,” she added.

Ferguson pursed his lips and tapped them with his pencil.

“Odd!” he exclaimed. “Were the servants aware that you had this jewelry
box?”

“They may have been, for while I do not have a personal maid, Anna,
the waitress, and Maud sometimes assist me in dressing for evening
entertainments.” Judith wondered when Ferguson would go. She desired
most heartily to be alone and thresh out her problems by herself.
“It is probable that both the girls have seen the jewelry box on my
dressing table,” she added after a brief pause.

“Where were the servants last night?” asked the detective.

“Anna was in her bedroom suffering from a sprained ankle”--Judith’s
foot was keeping up an incessant tattoo. “Maud let me in; after that
I did not see her again. They have both been here for years and are
excellent servants--they are English.”

Ferguson made a slight grimace. “That Maud is a nice she-devil,”
he exclaimed below his breath; Maud’s scathing remarks about the
inefficiency of the detective force in general and Ferguson in
particular still rankled. “I’d like to”--he checked himself and again
addressed Judith.

“How much approximately was your jewelry worth, Mrs. Richards?”

Judith took a paper from her mesh bag. “Here is a list of the articles
in the jewelry box,” she explained. “Major Richards suggested that I
prepare it for you.”

“That’s fine.” Ferguson reached eagerly for the paper and scanned the
items with increasing interest. “I see you estimate the jewelry at
four thousand five hundred dollars,” he remarked. “A pretty haul for
any thief. Fortunately your initials are on every piece,” running his
eye down the list in which Judith had inserted a minute description of
the jewelry. “Hold on, here’s one item, a locket--with nothing checked
against it--has the locket any distinguishing mark?”

Footsteps behind Judith caused her to whirl around, and she saw
Richards stop behind her chair.

“I couldn’t get away any sooner,” he explained. “Your mother detained
me in the dining room. Good-morning, Ferguson; has my wife told you of
the disappearance of her jewelry?”

“Yes, Major, and I was just asking her for details to aid in
identifying it at the pawn shops,” Ferguson again referred to the list
he was holding. “What about that locket, Mrs. Richards?”

Judith closed her mesh bag with a snap and the quick tilt upward of her
chin indicated to Richards, who had grown to know each mood and tense,
that she had reached a sudden decision.

“The locket bore the word ‘Mizpah,’ in raised lettering,” she stated.
“Otherwise it is insignificant in appearance.”

“Do you attach any particular value to it?” questioned Ferguson.

“No money value,” she responded quietly, and the detective looked
sharply at her.

“I see; you mean it is a trinket of importance from sentiment only,” he
commented.

It was Major Richards who answered and not his wife. “You’ve hit it,”
he laughed. “I presume Mrs. Richards values the locket more highly than
rubies.”

Judith looked at him oddly before turning to the detective. “I have a
request to make of you, Mr. Ferguson,” she began, without preface. “It
is that you make no mention of the loss of my jewelry to any one. I
am convinced that if we conduct the search in secrecy, the thief will
betray himself.”

Ferguson stroked his cheek thoughtfully. “I don’t like the idea,” he
objected. “I am a believer in publicity myself.”

“You have had plenty of publicity in the Austin Hale case,” Richards
pointed out dryly. “I cannot see that it has advanced you very far.”

Ferguson reddened. “We haven’t told the public all we know,” he
admitted. “There are a few cards up our sleeve.”

“For instance?” and Richards’ smile was tantalizing.

“As to the nature of Hale’s wound”--the detective paused abruptly--“but
that will come out in the medical evidence at the inquest.”

“And when will the inquest be held?” demanded Richards.

“When we lay our hands on a material witness necessary before we can
present the case,” Ferguson spoke with provoking slowness. “You will
learn all the facts in good time, Major; at present certain clews
cannot be divulged.”

“I thought you were an advocate of publicity,” Richards remarked, and
again Ferguson flushed.

“You’ve got me,” he acknowledged with a show of good nature. “All
right, Mrs. Richards, I’ll conduct this investigation as quietly as
possible. But how are you going to prevent your family’s knowing that
you have lost your jewelry? Won’t they comment when you don’t wear it?”

“If they do I shall say that I have put it in my safe deposit box,”
was Judith’s ready response. “My father has frequently urged me to do
so in the past and with Austin’s death and the theft of his watch,
what’s more likely than that I should place my jewelry in a safe place?”

Ferguson nodded his approval. “That is a wise argument,” he said. “No
one can dispute it. Now, about Mr. Hale’s watch,”--he turned back the
pages of his memorandum book until he came to a certain entry--“can you
describe it?”

“In a general way,” Judith spoke with some hesitation. “I have seen the
watch often, but I am not very observant.”

Ferguson considered her for some seconds in silence. He disagreed with
her statement--Judith, in his opinion, was not the heedless type; her
detailed description of her jewelry, safely tucked away in his pocket,
proved that.

“What was the watch like, Mrs. Richards?” he asked for the second time.

“It was an antique, made before the Revolution, so family tradition has
it,” she stated, “an open-faced watch, wound with a key and the dial
has an American eagle beautifully etched upon it.”

Ferguson took down her words, closed his notebook and rose.

“I am greatly obliged,” he said. “It should not be difficult to trace
young Hale’s watch and also your jewelry if the thief tries to dispose
of it. But that,” he stared at her, “presupposes it was the work of an
ordinary thief.”

“And what leads you to think otherwise?” asked Judith swiftly.

Ferguson took several steps toward the door and hesitated in some
uncertainty. “Your jewelry was stolen by some one familiar with your
habits and familiar with the arrangement of these rooms,” he stated
gravely. “There is no possible way of entering your bedroom save
through this boudoir, as all your windows were found locked on the
inside. How the thief stole by you and your husband unobserved while
you sat here, we have yet to discover. But, take it from me, the thief
was a member of this household. Good-morning.” Not pausing for reply,
the detective vanished.

“A member of this household,” repeated Richards thoughtfully. “Judith,
have you no suspicion--no clew?” and his eyes searched her face
anxiously.

Judith leaned back in her chair and gradually her tense muscles relaxed.

“I have no clew,” she replied. “But--tell me, when you got that glass
of water for me, did you glance at all into our bedroom?”

Richards pressed down the tobacco in his pipe and hunted through his
pockets for a match.

“Did I look into our bedroom?” he asked. “I may have looked, but I
can’t swear to it.”




CHAPTER XIV

SUSPICION


A DOOR slammed and hasty footsteps sounded down the corridor, then a
figure blocked the doorway to the sitting room of Latimer’s bachelor
apartment.

“She’s gone!”

Latimer dropped the Sunday newspaper he had been reading and stared at
John Hale. For a moment he had not recognized his friend’s voice--it
was hoarse, discordant.

“She--who?” he exclaimed, springing to his feet.

“Polly.” John Hale swayed slightly, then lunged for the nearest chair
and dropped into it. Latimer wasted no words, but poured out a liberal
pony of brandy and placed it in his hand.

“Feel better?” he asked, watching the color steal back into John
Hale’s white cheeks as he put the empty brandy glass on the mantel.
Not receiving an answer to his query, he busied himself about the room
which served as library and office. A colored factotum who “went with
the apartment” served his breakfasts; the other meals Latimer took at
his club or at Rauscher’s. His two rooms, bath, and kitchenette were
unusually large, owing to the building having been, before the World
War, a private residence. The architect, in remodeling it, had been
generous in his allotment of space.

At the end of ten minutes John Hale pulled himself together and signed
to Latimer to draw up a chair.

“Sorry I made such a fool of myself,” he began, “but I’m hard hit.”

Latimer looked at him in distress. “What is wrong?” he asked.

“Polly’s gone.”

“So you stated before. Where has she gone?”

“I can’t find out.” John Hale drummed his fingers nervously up and down
his walking stick to which he still clung. “You know I called up Mrs.
Davis after our fruitless trip to Chevy Chase. She said Polly had come
in and gone to bed.”

“Well, it was pretty late when we got back,” Latimer pointed out.

“Yes, thanks to that traffic cop.” John Hale frowned angrily. “I’d have
seen Polly if he hadn’t insisted on taking us to the police station.”

“Your previous record for speeding was against you, John,” remarked
Latimer mildly. “But what about Polly?”

“This morning I ran over to see her; found her mother in tears, and a
trained nurse looking after her and--” John Hale stopped and pulled out
a crumpled note--“here, read for yourself,” and tossed it to him.

Latimer scanned the few lines:

  DEAR MOTHER:

  Nurse Phelps will spend a few days with you in my absence. Have run off
  for that promised change. Don’t worry, darling.

                                                  POLLY.

“Well?” he asked as he returned the note.

“Mrs. Davis told me that she had wished Polly to take a vacation
for some time and visit their cousin, Mrs. Paul Davis, at Markham,
Virginia. She believed Polly had gone there.” John Hale paused. “I’ve
just talked with Mrs. Paul Davis on the long distance telephone. Polly
is not with her, and not expected.”

Latimer regarded John Hale in bewilderment. “Then where has she gone?”
he questioned.

“I have no idea.” Again John Hale played with his walking stick.

Latimer considered him gravely. “What am I to infer?” he asked. “That
Polly has disappeared?”

“Yes.”

“But, my heavens, man! Why?”

John Hale shifted his walking stick from one hand to the other.
“Overwork,” he said briefly; “unbalanced.”

“Good Lord!” Again Latimer considered him. “Polly did not look ill.”

“But she was,” fiercely. “Any fool could have seen it.”

“Possibly so,” agreed Latimer quietly. “I haven’t seen Polly as
frequently as you or Austin.”

John Hale’s strong white teeth snapped viciously at his under lip.

“Leave Austin’s name out of it”--his manner was dictatorial in the
extreme and Latimer flushed.

“I will, with pleasure, but”--he hesitated, then disregarding John
Hale’s glare, continued steadily--“are you quite sure that Austin’s
tragic death has not had something to do with Polly’s--as you
claim--mental condition?”

John Hale compressed his lips ominously. “No,” he declared. “Get such
an idea out of your head at once.”

“I can’t,” Latimer confessed frankly. “Austin and Polly were engaged.”

“Were? Quite so.” John Hale’s laugh was mirthless. “The engagement was
broken by Polly before his death.”

“How soon before his death?”

“Damn! What business is it of yours?” John Hale turned on him savagely.

Latimer rose. “None of my business--now,” he said. “You were the first
to bring up the discussion. You are of course at liberty to express
your views; I reserve the right to hold my own opinion. Good-morning.”

“Here, wait--” John Hale pushed Latimer back in his chair. “I spoke
hastily--without thought--and I apologize. I’m a bit unhinged.”

Latimer regarded him with concern.

“Have you had any breakfast?” he asked.

“No--yes--coffee and rolls; all I wanted,” John Hale moved restlessly.
“I must find Polly.”

“Have you reported her disappearance to the police?”

“No, certainly not; we must have no scandal,” John Hale frowned. “You
and I must find Polly.”

“Willingly--but how are we to go about it?”

“For one thing, you can call on Mrs. Davis under pretense of wishing
to engage Polly as your stenographer, and she will probably give
you her present address. You may get more out of her than I did.
Frankly,”--John Hale gave an embarrassed laugh--“Mrs. Davis’ manner to
me has been very peculiar lately. To-day she appeared almost to resent
my questions regarding Polly’s whereabouts.”

Latimer whistled. “So!” he exclaimed. “She may be aiding Polly to avoid
you.”

“That hadn’t occurred to me,” John Hale admitted. “But why? She knows I
am Polly’s best friend.”

Latimer took out his cigarette case and offered it to his companion.
With his left hand he indicated the box of matches on the smoking stand
at Hale’s elbow.

“Have you and Polly quarreled?” he asked.

It took a few seconds for John Hale to light his cigarette. “No,” he
said between puffs. Then, removing his cigarette, he looked straight at
Latimer. “Polly is everything to me,” he stated solemnly. “I will never
give her up. She shall be my wife,” and his clenched fist struck the
arm of his chair a resounding blow. “Austin, dead or alive, shall not
come between us.”

Latimer looked at him and then away. In the glance he had detected a
glimpse of the man he had never seen before--he had never suspected. In
that instant a naked soul had been bared in all its human frailties.

“Austin has always been a disappointment to me,” John Hale
continued--he spoke almost as if communing with himself and forgetful
of Latimer’s presence. “For his mother’s sake I condoned his wild
habits while at college, his affairs with women,”--his voice rasped
through the room--“then he dared to play fast and loose with Polly.”

“He did?” Latimer looked up, startled. “Good Lord, you don’t
suppose--?” he winced under John Hale’s iron grip and stopped speaking.

“I suppose nothing,” John Hale spoke with fierce intentness. “Austin
had enemies, but Polly was not one of them--she had taken his measure
and ceased to care.”

Latimer broke the ensuing silence.

“Then why has Polly bolted?” he asked.

John Hale winced and tapped his cane against his shoe.

“Polly is ill from overwork,” he insisted doggedly. “Come, we are
wasting time. Suppose I run you down to Polly’s house and you can
question Mrs. Davis. You are not busy, are you?” with a quick look
about the room.

“No; I’ll be with you in a minute,” and Latimer, true to his word, kept
him waiting only long enough to get his overcoat and hat.

Fifteen minutes later Latimer was mounting the high steps of the
old-fashioned mansion on C Street where Polly and her mother eked out
a small and steadily shrinking income by taking “paying guests,” a
profitable business during the World War, but one that had grown less
so with the departure of the army of war-workers who had transformed
Washington from a city of leisure into one of volcanic activity and
unpleasant congestion. It was not until Latimer’s patience had grown
threadbare with repeated rapping and long intervals of waiting that a
small, neatly dressed colored girl, seemingly not over fifteen years of
age, opened the door and invited him to walk inside.

“Magnolia,” called a voice from the direction of the back stairs. “Show
the gentleman into the parlor.”

“Yassam,” Magnolia’s expansive smile disclosed a row of perfect teeth.
“Dis hyar way, suh; de madam will be long d’reckly. Who did you say,
suh?” evidently impressed with his stylish frock coat and neatly
creased trousers. “Miss Polly done gone away.”

“I wish to see Mrs. Davis,” and Latimer handed her a visiting card.

“Yas, suh, sutenly, suh.” Magnolia, meeting his friendly smile, grinned
from ear to ear, then bolted with astonishing rapidity out of the room.
She was totally oblivious of the fact that her youthful, penetrating
voice, raised to a pitch to reach Mrs. Davis standing on the top stair
landing, carried her words to Latimer’s ears.

“Dar’s a splendiferous lookin’ gentle’um in his Sunday clothes waitin’
ter see yo’; no, ma’am, he didn’t arsk fo’ Miss Polly, jes’ fo’
you’--he’s got on great big spectacles and a top hat. What dat--you
wish de gentle’um’s cyard? Laws, ’scuse me, I done forgot”--and with
a loud snicker, Magnolia raced up the steps and pushed the pasteboard
into Mrs. Davis’s outstretched hand.

Latimer had met Mrs. Davis a number of times at Mrs. Hale’s and she had
chaperoned a number of parties given in Polly’s honor by John Hale. She
looked extremely pretty, with her soft gray hair becomingly dressed,
her cheeks, unwrinkled in spite of multiplied cares, held a deeper
touch of color as she entered the parlor and greeted Latimer. He
admired her gentle manner and her air of breeding which no contact with
the rough workaday world had the power to efface.

“I trust I have not disturbed you by selecting this unconventional
hour to call,” he began, seating himself somewhat gingerly on the edge
of a rickety antique chair which had been the pride of Polly’s great
grandfather. “Your maid said that Miss Polly was out, and as my errand
is somewhat urgent, I asked to see you.”

Mrs. Davis’s brilliant color receded somewhat and her left hand played
nervously with her chain of coral from which was suspended a gold
locket.

“You are always welcome,” she said, “no matter what your errand.”

“Thanks,” and Latimer, much touched, smiled with equal cordiality. “I
am in immediate need of a first class stenographer, and I wondered if I
could persuade Miss Polly to forsake Robert Hale and come to me. I will
double her present salary.”

Mrs. Davis drew in her breath. “That is a handsome offer,” she
exclaimed. “Of course I cannot answer for Polly, but, as she has
already resigned her position with Robert Hale--”

“She has resigned, then?”

“Yes.” Mrs. Davis looked her surprise at the abruptness of the
question. “I--I did not approve of her working so late at night. Mr.
Hale is kind in his way, but he is most exacting. The idea of keeping
her out until long after midnight on Tuesday, and night before last,
and then letting her come home in the street cars! He might at least,
have sent her home in his limousine.” Mrs. Davis came to an indignant
pause and Latimer looked his sympathy.

“Miss Polly will have no night work to do for me,” he said. “And the
office hours are not long--the Stock Exchange closes early, you know,
and not much business is transacted after that.”

Mrs. Davis nodded her head wisely. “I realize that,” she agreed. “The
stock market appears a bit more lively just now, Mr. Latimer. Tell
me,”--and she lowered her voice to a confidential pitch--“how are the
Troy Valve bonds rated now?”

“They have picked up five points.” Latimer regarded her in some
surprise. “I did not know you took an interest in the stock market,
Mrs. Davis.”

She colored painfully. “In former years we were large stockholders,”
she said; “now, alas, our securities have shrunk to these of Valve
bonds. I must tell Polly what you say. It is always well to sell on a
rising market, isn’t it?”

“If you wish to sell, yes,” dryly. Latimer, conscious of the passing
time, was having difficulty concealing his uneasiness as he thought of
John Hale waiting a block away in his car. In his impatience he might
forget the rôle he had cast for Latimer and, instead of awaiting the
latter’s return, walk in at any moment and, by incautious questions,
betray his own plot to discover Polly’s whereabouts. “How soon will
Miss Polly be in?”

“Oh, she is at Markham, Virginia, with my cousin, Mrs. Paul Davis,” she
responded easily. “You had best write to her there or, if you prefer, I
will write and tell her of your offer.”

“That is kind of you.” Latimer had some difficulty schooling his voice
to the proper pitch of enthusiasm for his rôle. “But I must have Miss
Polly’s answer to-day. Can we not call her up on the long distance? I
see your telephone is in that corner”--and he stepped toward it.

Mrs. Davis stopped him with a gesture. “No use, Mrs. Paul Davis has no
telephone,” she stated calmly. “I can send my letter special delivery
and she will get it to-day and wire to-morrow morning when the
telegraph office is open.”

“That would perhaps be best.” Latimer made no effort, however, to
conceal his disappointment. “Is there any chance of Miss Polly’s
returning this afternoon?”

“Hardly,” Mrs. Davis smiled in open amusement. “She left for Markham
only this morning.”

“In that case it looks as if I shall have to wait until to-morrow,”
Latimer’s voice was rueful. “I wish that I had asked John Hale to tell
Miss Polly last night that I wished to engage her as my secretary.”

“John did not see Polly last night.” A faint hardness crept into
Mrs. Davis’s softly modulated tone. “She worked very late at the
Hales’”--she hesitated, looked up, and caught his sympathetic
expression. “Oh, Mr. Latimer, I cannot help feeling that Polly sees too
much of the Hales--thinks too much of them and their interests--they
are so cold-blooded--so calculating. I wish”--and her voice choked with
feeling--“I wish that she had been dead before she ever saw John Hale.”

Latimer regarded Mrs. Davis steadily. “John is a good fellow,” he
protested, “a loyal friend and a devoted admirer of your daughter.” He
studied her covertly. “Much more so than Austin--”

“Ah, there you are wrong”--Mrs. Davis stopped and cast a frightened
look about the room. “Poor Austin, I cannot realize that he has gone
from us. He was so full of life, so anxious to succeed--his death is a
tragedy.”

“And a mystery,” supplemented Latimer dryly.

“A mystery indeed.” Mrs. Davis raised a small perfumed handkerchief
to her dry eyes. “My heart goes out to the Hales, they have much to
endure.” Latimer stared--she was expressing somewhat contradictory
views about the Hale family almost in one breath. She moved closer to
him. “Have the police discovered any fresh clews?”

“Not to my knowledge.” Latimer edged toward the hall door. He dared
not linger, every extra moment might bring John Hale in search of him.
“Suppose you write to your daughter, Mrs. Davis, and I will also send
her a note within the hour. If you have word from her will you promise
to let me know at once?”

“Certainly.” Mrs. Davis accompanied him to the front door. “I feel sure
Polly will gladly accept your offer. How soon would you wish her to
commence work?”

“Immediately.”

“Oh!” Mrs. Davis looked taken aback. “She really needs rest and
recreation, Mr. Latimer. Remember, she has just started on her
vacation.”

Latimer thought a moment. “She might come to me for a few weeks, just
over this month, then go on another vacation, or rather, continue this
one, with pay.”

“I will write that to Polly.” She shook his hand warmly. “I appreciate
your kindness and I am confident that Polly will come to you if she is
physically able.”

“Then I am fortunate,” laughed Latimer. Mrs. Davis’s smile was
infectious.

“Just a moment.” Mrs. Davis detained him as he was about to run down
the steps. Her pretty coaxing manner reminded him of Polly--mother and
daughter were much alike in appearance; only to Latimer’s fastidious
taste, Mrs. Davis was the more attractive. There was a certain
aggressiveness about Polly, in spite of her good looks, which always
repelled him. “Please treat what I said just now about John Hale as
strictly confidential.”

“Certainly, madam,” and Latimer returned the pressure of her hand,
then he continued down the steps, her parting hail ringing in his ears:

“Remember, not a word!”

When Latimer rounded the corner into Pennsylvania Avenue where John
Hale had agreed to wait for him, his face was grave. He said nothing as
he climbed into the car and dropped down beside his friend, but as the
car continued up the avenue, he broke his silence.

“I failed,” he admitted honestly, and a groan of disappointment broke
from John Hale. “Don’t worry, I’ll get Polly’s address to-morrow. Mrs.
Davis thinks I called to engage Polly as my secretary.”

Had either Latimer or John Hale turned his head and looked backward
he could not have failed to see a woman standing under a tree at the
corner of John Marshall Place. Their car was lost in the traffic before
Mrs. Davis, recovering from a feeling of breathlessness produced by the
unusual exertion of running, turned slowly homeward.




CHAPTER XV

THE PUSH BUTTON


MRS. HALE contemplated Anna, the waitress, with marked disapproval.

“You should not attempt to exert yourself until Dr. McLane gives you
permission,” she announced, with severity.

“Dr. McLane told me to walk about as much as possible, madam.” Anna’s
manner was respectful almost to the point of servility. “He promised
to be here this afternoon. Indeed, Mrs. Hale, I’ll be careful. Don’t
worry, madam.”

“I suppose the doctor knows what he is about”--Mrs. Hale, however,
looked extremely doubtful as she spoke. Her own attacks of illness were
distinct trials to every member of her family, as her chronic objection
to following the doctor’s orders or taking his medicines generally
retarded her recovery and produced a wish that “the Old Scratch” would
get her, that opinion having been voiced by a long-suffering trained
nurse, whose training had not included a course in insults.

“Dr. McLane is sometimes inclined to error,” Mrs. Hale continued after
a slight pause. “Don’t take his directions too literally, Anna. Modify
them. If he said walk about for an hour, cut it to one half. And never
take a full dose of anything prescribed, reduce it by one half.”

“Yes, madam; thank you,” and Anna executed a bob of a courtesy in spite
of her injured ankle. “Is there anything I can do for you?”

“No, I think not. Now, mind what I say, don’t overexert yourself.”

“Yes, madam,” and Anna started for the door only to be called back by
Mrs. Hale.

“As you go downstairs please tell Maud that Mr. Latimer will lunch
with us--that is, I think he will, but he hasn’t answered my telephone
message.” Mrs. Hale thought a minute. “Maud can put a place for him.”

“Very well, madam.”

“Wait, there’s one thing more.” Mrs. Hale laid aside her knitting bag,
preparatory to rising. “See that the table is properly set, Anna,
please. Maud is--eh--not particular, and I am.”

“I will set the table myself, madam.”

“No, no, that is too much exertion for you, Anna.”

“But, madam, I am strong again, see”--and Anna stepped across the
room. Her limp was slight. Mrs. Hale heaved a sigh of relief.

“You have had a remarkable recovery,” she exclaimed. “My remedies can
be relied on to effect a quick cure. By the way,”--the thought of
luncheon uppermost for the moment--“if there is time enough, please
make an apple salad.”

“Certainly, madam. Is there anything else?”

“No, I can think of nothing.” Mrs. Hale wrinkled her brow, but no new
ideas came to her active brain. “Where is Miss Judith?”

“In her boudoir, madam.” Anna, who had taken several steps toward the
door, paused. “Maud told me just now that Miss Judith and Detective
Ferguson have been holding a long”--Anna hesitated--“conference.”

“Conference!” Mrs. Hale’s tone expressed astonishment. “Oh!” and she
stared at the waiting servant. “That is all, Anna,” and the waitress
made her escape.

Mrs. Hale crossed the drawing-room and stood before the large
gilt-framed wall mirror which gave her a full length view of her
figure. It took several minutes to rearrange a bow of ribbon and
several pieces of jewelry, after which Mrs. Hale proceeded leisurely
to the third floor. She did not often climb to that height, and, on
reaching the head of the stairs, she paused to take breath, then,
passing down the broad hall, she turned the knob of a closed door and
entered a semidarkened room.

It took her several seconds to pull up the Holland shades of the dormer
windows and flood the bedroom with sunlight. When she turned around she
saw a man sitting on the edge of the bed watching her. A slight scream
broke from her and she swayed dizzily. With a bound the man gained her
side.

“Don’t be frightened, Mrs. Hale. It is only I, Detective Ferguson,” he
explained. “I thought you saw me when you first entered the room.”

Mrs. Hale shook her head as she sank into the chair he placed for her.

“Dear me,” she exclaimed, “I declare you gave me quite a turn. I had
no idea I should find any one in Austin’s bedroom.” Resentment against
its cause conquered her fright in some measure and she whirled on him.
“What are you doing here?”

“I might ask the question of you,” he retorted coolly seating himself
opposite her.

“Upon my word!” Mrs. Hale continued to stare at him. Then, as he
evinced no desire to address her, her manner changed. “I heard you
were in the house,” she began, ignoring his question as he had hers;
“and I intended to ask you not to leave until I had seen you.”

“Indeed?”

“Yes.” Mrs. Hale’s manner was graciousness itself. “And I am glad to
have this opportunity for a private interview.”

“Yes?” Ferguson resorted to brevity while striving to divine a reason
for her sudden change of manner.

“I have wanted so much to question you,” she announced. “Have you made
any progress in solving the mystery of Austin’s death?”

“It depends on what you term ‘progress,’” he responded dryly.

“Have you discovered any clew to his--his murderer?” she hesitated
over the last word. “Now, don’t put me off with stupid evasions,” she
added. “How do you know, if we talk over details _together_,” with
marked emphasis, “that I may not be able to detect some point of vital
importance which _you_ may have overlooked?”

Ferguson gazed at her reflectively. There was something in what
she said. Was she really the fool he had taken her for all along?
If she was, and she held some knowledge which would aid him in
elucidating the Hale mystery, it would be to his advantage to win her
confidence--if necessary, with a show of confidence on his part.

“That is not a bad idea,” he acknowledged. “I’ve handled many puzzling
cases, but this one,”--he paused--“this one has taken the lead”; then,
as she started to interrupt him, he added, “Here are the facts so far
known,”--he smiled--“publicly. Young Austin Hale--by the way, what was
his exact relationship to you?”

“A nephew by adoption, at which time Austin assumed the name of
Hale,” was her concise reply, so unlike her usual flowery style of
conversation that it drew a smile from the detective. “His proper name
was Payne--Austin Payne.”

“I see.” Ferguson was watching her as a cat watches a mouse. He had
maneuvered his chair so that his back was to the light while she faced
the sun’s merciless rays. “Austin returns to this house unexpectedly on
Tuesday night, is found by your son-in-law, Major Richards, stabbed to
death, and not a soul in your house knows anything about the tragedy.”
Ferguson’s gesture was expressive. “No weapon to be found but a pair
of shears, no motive for the crime but the theft of a more or less
valuable antique watch--a watch whose very ownership would lead to an
arrest on suspicion. There was no trace of a burglar’s having broken
into the house. Therefore the crime must have been committed by an
inmate of your house, Mrs. Hale.”

“No, no!” she protested vehemently, and he detected the whitening of
her cheeks under the delicately applied rouge.

“And every member of your household has an excellent alibi,” he went
on, not heeding her interruption. “There must be a flaw somewhere;
there has to be one.” And he lent emphasis to his words by striking his
clenched fist in the palm of his left hand. “Now, where is the flaw?”

Mrs. Hale looked away from him, then back again. “I wish I knew,” she
wailed, and two large tears rolled down her cheeks. “I’ve racked my
brain trying to find a solution to the mystery, and at last I came up
here--”

“For what?”

“To see if Austin dropped any paper--any note paper, so big”--and she
demonstrated an approximate size while Ferguson listened eagerly.
“Austin must have had some reason for returning so unexpectedly.”

“Of course he did,” agreed Ferguson. “And you think there may be a clew
tucked away in this bedroom. Well, we think alike in that. It is the
same line of reasoning which brought me up here.” Mrs. Hale winked away
her tears and brightened visibly; she was easily influenced by flattery
and Ferguson’s tone of comradeship tinged with admiration completely
won her. “This room has been thoroughly searched.”

“But something may have been overlooked,” she interrupted eagerly.

“Exactly--suppose we look,” and, rising, Ferguson aided her in her
rapid investigation of the bureau drawers. They were rewarded by
finding only a few articles of wearing apparel. Her ardor somewhat
dampened, Mrs. Hale accompanied the detective to the closet and stepped
inside its commodious depths.

“This is evidently the overcoat and hat Austin was wearing on Tuesday
night,” Ferguson pointed out, holding them up for her inspection. “And
here is the coat of his suit,” removing it from the hook as he spoke.

Mrs. Hale shrank back, then shaking off her slight feeling of
repugnance she deliberately searched every pocket--to find a silk
handkerchief and a gold card case in which were Austin’s visiting cards.

“Austin must have come direct to his bedroom on reaching here Tuesday
night,” Ferguson remarked as he replaced the coat. “Why he went
downstairs in his vest and shirt sleeves, I cannot imagine.”

“Perhaps he was in the midst of dressing and was called downstairs,”
suggested Mrs. Hale and her voice indicated pleased surprise at her own
astuteness.

“Who called him?”

“I haven’t the faintest idea”--she did not lower her eyes before
Ferguson’s penetrating gaze.

“If it had been a woman,” mused Ferguson, “he surely would have stopped
to put on his coat.”

“Not if he was urgently needed downstairs.”

“But who could have ‘urgently needed him’?” questioned Ferguson
swiftly. “Your daughter--”

“Was unaware of his presence in the house,” haughtily. “She stood in no
need of Austin’s assistance--put that idea out of your head instantly.”

“You misunderstood me,” he protested. “I was only going to say that
your daughter was the only woman on the next floor.”

“So we suppose.”

Ferguson caught her up. “Do you suspect another woman was here?” he
demanded. “If so who was it--one of your servants?”

“No, they were asleep in their rooms.” Mrs. Hale resumed her seat. She
was commencing to feel fatigued. “You have assured yourself of that.”

“Yes,” acknowledged Ferguson. “We can eliminate them. I am, however,
considering all the women who _might_ have been here. You--”

“I?” Although Mrs. Hale laughed heartily in amusement, there was
a false note in her somewhat high-pitched voice. “You surely do
not suspect _me_? Why, my dear man, I was at the French Embassy
reception; there are plenty of friends to testify to that besides my
brother-in-law, John Hale, who took me to the reception and brought me
home. You were here when we both arrived.”

Ferguson laughed with her. “I was just running over the people who
belong in this house,” he explained. “Your husband was ill--”

“And in bed,” she interpolated.

“The servants in their quarters; Mrs. Richards in her room--at
least”--with a sharp look at her. “She was in her room, was she not?”

“Certainly. She has a suite of rooms on the floor below.”

“I was just in there.” Ferguson paused, then went back to what he had
been saying. “Major Richards was at the Metropolitan Club on Tuesday
night.”

“So he told us.” Mrs. Hale raised her hands and dropped them with a
hopeless gesture. “Every person is accounted for--we are just where we
started.”

“Not quite.” Ferguson hesitated and glanced about the room. Mrs. Hale,
upon entering, had closed the door behind her, and there seemed no
likelihood of their conversation’s being overheard. “I found on further
inquiry at the Metropolitan Club that Major Richards was last seen
there about midnight. The doorman on duty Tuesday night declares he did
not see him leave the club, and does not know the hour of his departure
for home.”

“Well, what of that?” questioned Mrs. Hale, as he stopped.

“This: according to Major Richards, he reached this house about
twenty minutes past one o’clock in the morning and he was last seen
in the club a little before midnight. It leaves an hour of his time
unaccounted for, and it was during that hour that Austin Hale was
murdered.”

Mrs. Hale sat speechless for a minute. “Preposterous!” she exclaimed
hotly, recovering from her surprise “Why should Major Richards kill a
man he does not know?”

Ferguson glanced uneasily at her and came to a quick decision.

“Suppose Major Richards came home and found Austin talking to his wife
and became jealous--”

Mrs. Hale bounced out of her chair. “How dare you insinuate that
Judith was having an affair with Austin?” she demanded. “You are most
insulting--I shall inform Major Richards--”

“My dear madam, pray, calm yourself,” Ferguson begged, appalled by the
storm he had provoked. “I thought we agreed to talk over all aspects of
the Hale murder--it was your own suggestion.”

“Certainly it was, but I did not expect--” Mrs. Hale sniffed. “If you
ask Major Richards to account for all his time Tuesday night he will do
so, I am convinced. A man of his temperament and record--”

“Where is his record?” broke in Ferguson. “What is his record? I cannot
learn anything about him.”

“His record is on file in the War Department.”

“His army record, yes.” Ferguson pulled out his watch and jumped to his
feet “Pardon me, Mrs. Hale, but I have a consultation at my office and
must leave at once.”

“Tell me before you go,”--Mrs. Hale detained him with a gesture--“did
you find anywhere among Austin’s belongings either here or in New York
a railroad ticket?”

“A ticket? No.” Ferguson eyed her sharply. “Why?”

“I was wondering if he had just stopped over a train on his way south,”
she explained glibly. “It was just an idea--don’t let me detain you
longer.”

Ferguson halted in indecision; however, his engagement brooked no
further delay if he was to be on time for it. He could question Mrs.
Hale later in the day.

“I will return,” he said. “But if you desire me at any time, please
telephone, Mrs. Hale. Good-morning.”

Left to her own resources, Mrs. Hale diligently searched the room. She
had about decided to stop, disgusted with her lack of results when on
feeling about in the depths of the top drawer of Austin’s bureau she
touched a small book, and pulled it out. On its leather cover she saw
stamped in gold the insignia of a Senior secret society at Yale.

Mrs. Hale turned over several of the leaves and glanced down the
pages, hesitated a moment then, placing the book in her convenient
knitting bag, she proceeded to the dining room to make certain that
Maud had properly set the luncheon table. She was particular about
small household details. As she passed the door of Judith’s boudoir she
failed to see Richards standing somewhat in its shadow regarding her.
Richards was still gazing after her retreating figure when Judith, who
was in their bedroom dressing for luncheon, called to him.

“Please ring for Maud,” she asked as he appeared, and obediently he
returned to the boudoir and reached for the push button. The act was
mechanical, and it was not until he had made three attempts to ring the
bell that he realized that the small object he was fingering was not
the push button.

Richards stepped back and surveyed the boudoir walls. The bell he
sought was on the other side of the door leading into their bedroom.
After pressing the button he walked back and examined the little object
on the opposite wall. To all intents and purposes it resembled an
electric push button, hanging just below an enlarged photograph of
Mrs. Hale.

Richards’ strong sensitive fingers felt behind the framed photograph
until they encountered a tiny wire. It wound in and out along the
picture wire until it encountered the wires of the branch telephone. He
stood in deep thought for some minutes, then walked into the bedroom.

“Can I be of service, dear?” he asked his wife. “Maud hasn’t answered
the bell.”

Judith, wrestling with a refractory hook, shook her head. “Thanks, but
Maud’s clever fingers are needed to disentangle this mess,” she said.
“Do you mind running downstairs and telling her to come to me? The bell
must be out of order.”

“I’ll have her here in a jiffy,” Richards answered, but, once in the
hall, his footsteps lagged.

No one was in sight, and getting down on his knees he felt along the
telephone wire which ran on top of the wall board. The same fine wire
was fastened in place alongside it. Step by step Richards traced the
two wires running side by side until they crossed the door-jamb of Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Hale’s bedroom. They were old-fashioned in their ideas
and occupied the same room.

Richards tapped, first gently, then more loudly, on the partly
opened door and getting no response, he walked inside. It was a large
room filled with handsome mahogany furniture, the carved four-post
bedstead taking up the greater space. But Richards had eyes for but
one object standing on a table in an obscure corner of the room, with
a soft typewriter cover partly concealing the receivers and earpieces
from view. Walking over to it, Richards lifted the cover and examined
the instrument. When he laid the cover down his expression indicated
incredulity and a dawning horror.

With what object had Robert Hale or his wife, or both, placed a
dictograph in Judith’s boudoir?




CHAPTER XVI

LINKS IN THE CHAIN


ANNA, the waitress, answered Robert Hale’s persistent ring of the front
bell with all the speed her strained ankle would permit. At sight
of her, Hale restrained an outburst of temper and with a mumbled,
“Thanks,” stamped past her into the central hall of his home.

“Is my brother in the house, Anna?” he inquired, tossing down his
overcoat and hat on the first chair he came to.

“Yes, sir, I believe so.” Anna closed the front door as an icy current
of air blew her becoming cap at right angles. “His hat and cane are
here on the coat stand, and I heard him ask Mr. Latimer to go to his
room with him as they left the dining room after luncheon.”

Hale paused on his way to the library. “Who lunched here?”

“Mrs. Hale, Miss Judith, Major Richards, Mr. Latimer, and Mr. John,
sir,” Anna explained in detail. “Mrs. Hale complained of a headache
and the Major volunteered to take her for a run in Miss Judith’s
electric.”

“Did Miss Judith accompany them?”

“Yes, sir.”

Hale looked at the pretty waitress. It was the first time that he had
seen her since her injury to her ankle. Contrary to expectations, he
had not returned for luncheon but had remained at the club.

“How are you feeling, Anna?” he asked kindly. “Not overdoing it by
being about too soon, are you?”

“No, sir.” Anna flushed with pleasure. Hale seldom addressed her, much
less took an interest in her welfare, and she had some ado to conceal
her surprise. “I’m feeling fine, sir. Is there anything I can do for
you, sir, before I go upstairs?”

“You are going upstairs?” Hale halted. “Then please stop at Mr. John’s
room and tell him that I would like to see him alone in the den.”

“Very good, sir,” and Anna sought the back stairs and limped her way to
the third floor.

John Hale’s bedroom was almost directly opposite that occupied by his
stepson Austin. As Anna came down the hall she was greeted by tobacco
smoke which drifted through the open transom over John Hale’s door. In
response to her knock he came into the hall.

“If you please, Mr. John, your brother wishes to see you alone in the
den,” she said.

“Now?”

“Yes, sir, I suppose so. Mr. Hale just said that he would like to see
you,” and having delivered her message, Anna executed her bob of a
courtesy and went her way.

John Hale walked back into his bedroom with a scowling face, and over
to the divan where Frank Latimer lounged, smoking his inevitable
cigarette.

“Robert’s sent for me,” he stated. “What do you suppose he is up to?”

Latimer dropped his cigarette in the smoking stand and stood up.

“Mrs. Davis told me, you recollect, that Polly had resigned her
position as his secretary,” he reminded him. “Probably your brother has
just received a note from her.”

“By Jove!” John Hale’s scowl vanished. “The note may give Polly’s
address. Come on, Frank,” and he made for the door, followed in a more
leisurely fashion by his companion.

“Didn’t your brother send word that he wished to see you alone?” he
asked. “I thought I heard Anna tell you so.”

“She did, that’s true”--John Hale paused at the head of the staircase.
“Wait for me, will you? I won’t be long. And then, if there is no
address on Polly’s note, we’ll motor to Markham and see for ourselves
if Polly is there or not.”

“But, look here--”

“No ‘buts,’” John Hale slapped him on the back. The prospect of action
had brought back his spirits. “You’ve got to see me through this,
Frank, for the sake of ‘auld lang syne.’ You’ve kept me out of trouble
before, remember that”--and he gripped Latimer’s hand and wrung it.

“It looks as if I had contracted for a big job,” groaned Latimer,
expanding his fingers which tingled from John Hale’s pressure. “I’ll
gladly turn you over to Polly with my blessings. I’ll wait for you in
the library, but don’t be long.”

“All right,” and the two friends parted on the second floor.

John Hale did not go at once to his brother’s den. Instead, he watched
Latimer disappear down the circular staircase, then very slowly crossed
the hall and looked inside Judith’s boudoir. It was empty. With
indecision written plainly on his face, he turned about and sought the
den. Robert Hale looked up from his desk, where he was writing with
feverish speed, as his brother entered.

“Close the door, John,” he directed, and waited in silence until his
brother had crossed the room and stood by the fireplace, in which a gas
log burned. “Sit down.”

John Hale regarded his brother with no friendly eyes. He had always
resented what he termed “Robert’s elder brother act,” and his
dictatorial manner generally grated, besides which their natures were
too diametrically opposed ever to agree on any subject. John’s height
and commanding figure had always been a source of envy to his delicate
brother, while the latter’s scientific achievements and financial
prosperity had served to widen the breach between them.

“I can stay only a minute,” John announced, lounging against the
mantel. “What do you wish to see me about?”

Hale’s thin lips tightened into a straight line. “Sit down first,”--his
manner was a bit more courteous--“and I will explain. No, take that
chair where you can face me,” and John, against his wishes, dropped
into a seat facing not only his brother but the full glare of light
from the window.

“Well, what is it?” he asked, as his brother volunteered no remark.

“Can you tell me the present whereabouts of my secretary, Polly Davis?”
asked Hale.

“Why do you ask?”

“Because she has sent me her resignation, and I desire to find out
where she has gone and why she has skipped.”

“Skipped?” There was instant anger in John’s loud tone. “What d’ye
mean, ‘skipped’?”

“Run away, if you like it better.” It was impossible to mistake Hale’s
sneering manner. With a curse, John started from his chair.

“You--” he began.

“Quiet, John,” cautioned Hale suavely. “Hear what I have to say before
you lose your temper.”

John dropped back in his chair. “Go on,” he shouted, “but don’t try me
too far; keep a civil tongue when you speak of Polly--she is pure and
sweet and I’ll not have her character defiled.”

“And she met Austin here on Tuesday night,” Hale commented dryly. “You
know Austin’s reputation--sit down!” as John again started to his feet.
“Either hear me to the end or leave now,” and Hale threw himself back
in his seat. “I will not be interrupted every second.”

With difficulty the younger brother mastered his rage. At all cost he
felt that he must get information about Polly, and he could do so only
by maintaining self-control. He knew his brother too well to doubt that
if Hale awoke to the fact that John desired such information he would
withhold it from sheer deviltry.

“I am listening,” he said sullenly. “Only remember, my time is
valuable.”

Hale smiled with his lips only. “Let us face the situation,” he
remarked. “Polly met Austin here on Tuesday night--”

“How do you know she did?” John demanded hotly.

“I saw her,” calmly.

“You--” John stared at him. “You were ill in bed.”

“I was ill--but not in bed,” corrected Hale. “Anna had forgotten to put
a glass of ice water on my bed table and, becoming thirsty, I got up,
walked down the hall and helped myself from the pitcher and glasses
which always stand there at night.” He paused. “I started to return
when I thought I heard a woman crying and I took several steps down the
circular staircase--”

“Well?” prompted John, as his brother stopped to take breath.
“Continue.”

“You are interested?” A mocking gleam shone for an instant in Hale’s
deep-set eyes. “I glanced over the bannister into the central hall and
saw Polly Davis come out of the library.”

The silence in the den grew oppressive. Suddenly John Hale raised both
hands and tugged at his collar as if for air. Then, just as suddenly,
his hands fell to his sides.

“What followed?” he asked, and Hale wondered at the moderation of his
tone. He had expected a tongue-lashing at the least, if not a physical
encounter--his taut muscles relaxed and he assumed an easier position.

“Polly stood clinging to the portières for an instant, then before I
could call to her, she ran to the front door and dashed outside,” Hale
continued.

“Did you go downstairs?” questioned John.

“No, I did not feel equal to the exertion,” Hale explained. “I returned
to bed.”

“What? Without going to see what Polly was doing here and why she
should be crying?” asked John incredulously.

Hale smiled cynically. “I have been brought up on woman’s tears,” he
remarked. “Agatha has let loose the floodgates so often that I am
schooled to indifference. I supposed Polly had been with Judith in
the library, and it was not until I was told of Austin’s death that I
ascribed another reason for her presence here after midnight.”

John looked at him with bloodshot eyes. “Don’t try me too far,” he
warned. “It wouldn’t take much to kill you,” and he extended his
powerful hands, fingers distended as if to grip their prey.

His brother watched him unmoved.

“It is easy to kill a man--witness Austin’s murder,” he commented. “But
it is unpleasant to swing for the crime. I am glad Polly has bolted.”

“You jump to conclusions,” retorted John. “Because _you_ saw Polly
coming out of the library it does not prove that she killed Austin, nor
does it prove that she knew he was here, nor that she talked with him.”

“That is true,” agreed Hale; “but in addition to seeing her leave the
library I know that she had borrowed Agatha’s latchkey. I know she
expected to see Austin--”

“Prove it,” John shouted. “I demand proof.”

Hale unlocked his desk drawer, took out a crumpled sheet of
typewriting, and, still retaining a firm hold on the sheet, extended it
so that his brother could read the words. “This is a page copied from
my manuscript,” he explained. “Polly spoiled the sheet by reversing
the carbon,”--he turned it over and showed the impression on the other
side--“but before she did so she indicated where her thoughts were
straying by this”--and his finger pointed to the typed lines, repeated
several times at the bottom of the sheet:

“Saw Austin 10-t-b-53-76c.”

“What gibberish is that?” asked John scornfully.

“Not gibberish,” calmly, “but the combination of my safe.”

The striking of the clock as the hands registered three sounded like a
knell in John Hale’s ears. His brother was the first to speak.

“These links in the chain of evidence considered separately are weak,”
he admitted candidly, “but taken together, they are strong.”

“I don’t believe it,” protested John. “It is all circumstantial
evidence--”

“To which Polly has lent substance by her disappearance,” retorted
Hale: “Had she stayed here and continued as my secretary, attention
would not have been attracted to her.”

John did not reply at once and Hale, watching him, noted his changed
expression with bated interest.

“To sum up,”--Hale’s voice cut the silence and scraped afresh John’s
raw nerves--“Polly was engaged to Austin--can you deny it?” Receiving
no reply, he went on, “Polly knew he would be here Tuesday night,
witness her presence in the house at midnight; she supplied him with
the combination of my safe; she was seen leaving the library at the
very time he must have been murdered, and his body was found lying near
the _open_ safe--”

“Hold on, she may have been here and all that,” John broke in with
rough vehemence, “but some one else may have killed Austin even in her
presence--”

“Then why has she not told the police?” John remained silent, and his
brother continued speaking. “I hoped Polly would brave it out here,
and to reduce her anxieties--for I know how pushed she is for money--I
increased her salary and held my tongue.”

John stared at him long and intently before again addressing him.

“Why have you kept silent and not informed the police of your
suspicions?” he asked, curiously. “Charity is not usually one of your
virtues.”

“Austin deserved what he got,” Hale answered slowly. “And--I was always
fond of a sporting chance. Therefore, John, find Polly and I will aid
you to finance a trip to a country where extradition is not enforced.”

John’s face flamed scarlet. Slowly his color ebbed and his hands
unclenched, and when he spoke his voice was low and measured.

“Where am I to find Polly?”

Hale took a letter from his desk. “Polly writes that she is called out
of town and, not knowing the date of her return, fears that she will be
unable to continue as my secretary, and with every good wish, begs to
remain faithfully mine.” Hale shrugged his shoulders by way of comment,
and added: “The letter is dated this morning, has no street address
on it, and was sent to my club. See for yourself,” and he tossed the
letter to him.

John read the familiar writing several times, then folding the sheet,
tucked it in his pocket and rose.

“Is there anything else you wish to see me about?” he asked.

“No.” Hale turned carelessly back to his desk. “Take a fool’s advice
and do not procrastinate in your search for Polly.”

John walked in silence to the door. Once there, he looked back and
addressed his brother.

“Some day I’ll wring your damn neck!” he exclaimed, and his brother’s
mocking laughter was still ringing in his ears as he went down the
circular staircase.

The sound of voices at the front door aroused him from his thoughts,
and, looking in that direction, he saw Maud, the parlor maid,
conversing with a District messenger boy. She was in the act of signing
a receipt when an oblong package on which she was trying to write,
slipped from her awkward fingers and struck with a resounding thud on
the marble floor of the vestibule. There was a tinkle of broken glass
as the tissue paper covering burst. The messenger, scenting trouble,
snatched the receipt out of her hand and bolted down the steps, while
Maud, with a loud exclamation, stooped and picked up the package.

“Look at that, now!” she gasped in tragic tones, as John Hale stopped
beside her. “What’ll I do? I’ve broken the crystal of Major Richards’
watch.” And tearing off the remains of the tissue paper, she held the
piece of jewelry before him.

John Hale scarcely heard her words, his attention was entirely centered
on the open-faced watch. Small bits of crystal still clung to its face,
but the dial had not been injured and the hands were intact.

“Where did the watch come from?” he asked, and at the eagerness in his
voice Maud looked up.

“It’s Major Richards’!” she explained. “Jennings, the watchmaker on
Fourteenth Street, sent word by the boy that he couldn’t get it over
last night as promised, so he sent it this afternoon. What will the
Major say to me?” and Maud’s distress found vent in a subdued sniff
presaging a burst of tears.

“Don’t worry, Maud; I’ll explain to Major Richards that the accident
was unavoidable. Let me have the watch,” and as Maud expressed voluble
thanks, he sped into the library, the watch dangling from its chain.

“Frank,” he cried. “Hurry, man, I’ve found”--he checked himself at
sight of Judith sitting on the lounge talking to Latimer.

Judith turned her head at his abrupt entrance and looked at him, then
her eyes wandered from his excited face to the watch which he held at
arm’s length as he advanced toward them.

“See!” he exclaimed, and rested the watch on the tufted side of the
lounge, where both Judith and Latimer had a close view of its antique
beauty. Judith bent closer and when she straightened up her face was
flushed.

“It is Austin’s watch!” she declared. “I can swear to it.”

“You need not swear--it is Austin’s watch,” John Hale’s tone was cold
and cutting. “But you can explain how the watch came in the possession
of your husband, Major Richards.”

Judith’s bright color faded. “It is in your possession, and not in the
possession of my husband,” she retorted. “Had you not better do the
explaining?”

“Willingly--the watch has been in my hands just about four
minutes.” John lifted the paper tag attached to the chain. “Listen,
Judith--‘Major J. C. Richards--repair broken link in chain and return
immediately.’ Your husband left the watch and chain with Jennings and
he has returned it.” John Hale moderated his rapid speech and spoke
with impressiveness. “Austin was murdered and his watch stolen--that
watch has turned up ticketed with your husband’s name. Kindly explain
it.”

Judith was conscious of the intent watchfulness of her uncle and Frank
Latimer as they waited for her reply, and with all her will power she
strove to steady her voice.

“My husband is out just now,” she stated clearly. “When he returns he
will explain everything to our satisfaction.”

“Will he?” John Hale’s high temper had slipped control. “I see it all
now. Your father knows your husband killed Austin, and to save family
scandal has plotted evidence against Polly Davis, even buying her
silence and providing funds to have her disappear.”

“Have you taken leave of your senses?” demanded Judith, breaking into
his torrent of words.

“No, on the contrary, every faculty is on the alert,” retorted John
Hale. “By God, to think of Robert’s trying to shield Richards by making
an innocent girl appear guilty. It’s an outrage and I’ll expose every
rotten one of you--”

“Steady, John!” Latimer stepped in front of him. “Go easy! You shan’t
insult Judith in my presence.”

“Don’t you interfere. Judith shall learn the truth about her rascally
husband”--he waved the watch in front of the white-faced girl.
“Richards took this watch from Austin as he took your Valve bonds from
your father’s safe. I’ve got the goods on him, and he’ll swing for
Austin’s murder.”

“He will not!” Judith’s voice rose, clear and strong, and silenced even
her overwrought uncle. Her eyes glowed with passionate anger as she
faced him. “You dare to threaten me, Uncle John?”

“I dare to protect Polly Davis from underhand, blackguardly treatment,”
he replied. “It is a frame-up.”

“Is it?” Judith’s smile was dangerous. “Go back to Polly and take her
that watch. Tell her there is a link missing in the chain you are
trying to forge and I have it, although she may have the Mizpah locket.
Go, both of you!”

John Hale started as if stung. Then, without a word he pocketed the
watch and, seizing Latimer’s arm, dragged him out of the room.




CHAPTER XVII

THE DANCING SILHOUETTES


ON hearing the slam of the front door behind her uncle and Frank
Latimer, Judith went to the windowed alcove of the library overlooking
the street on which their house faced and, concealed from the view of
passers-by, she watched John Hale and his companion enter the former’s
touring car and drive off. Not until the car had turned the corner did
she relax her vigilant attitude, then, turning, she paced up and down
the floor. She could not keep still. Her nerves were aquiver, her brain
on fire.

How had Austin’s antique watch come into her husband’s possession?
Again and again her lips framed the same question--with but the one
answer. Richards must have taken it from Austin’s dead body. But
why--why? Austin was wearing the watch when murdered; that she could
swear to. Had she not taken the Mizpah locket from its chain in that
awful moment when she had first discovered his body and left the watch
with its dangling broken chain in his pocket?

What was it her husband had told her? She pressed her fingers against
her throbbing temples in an effort to remember. He had returned just
as she reached the hall, had carried her unconscious to their boudoir,
revived her, gone downstairs for a bottle of bromides and discovered
Austin lying murdered in the library. She whitened to the lips. Had he
seized the opportunity to rifle her father’s safe, the door of which
was open, before sending for the coroner and police?

He had sold Valve bonds belonging to her which had disappeared that
night from the safe, and now--Judith raised her hands in silent,
passionate protest--if Joe, in dire need of money, had yielded to
sudden overwhelming temptation and taken her bonds, why--why had he
stolen Austin’s watch? It could bring him no money return, for the
first attempt to sell it would focus suspicion upon him.

If he had been so mad as to steal the watch as well as the bonds, why
had he been so foolhardy as to send it to a watchmaker to have the
chain repaired, trusting to any messenger to return it to him unknown
to others?

Judith stopped short in her restless walk as a sudden idea occurred
to her. Was her husband a kleptomaniac? Had he yielded to an insane
impulse to steal? Judith racked her brain to remember what she had
heard of kleptomania--that it was a recognized mental derangement,
an irresponsible and irresistible propensity to steal, and that the
kleptomaniac cared nothing for the objects stolen as soon as the craze
to steal was gratified. But Joe had cared enough to sell her Valve
bonds. That might have been a sane act, Judith acknowledged to herself
bitterly, but to take a useless watch which would surely involve him in
another and greater crime was the act of insanity.

_Would involve_ him--it _had already involved_ him. Judith’s breath
came faster and perspiration appeared in beads on her forehead. She
knew John Hale’s stubborn will, his passionate affection for Polly
Davis--he would move heaven and earth to convict her husband. What more
likely than that he was already at Police Headquarters swearing out a
warrant for his arrest?

Judith’s loyalty to her husband was instantly in arms. He might be a
kleptomaniac,--if so, he was to be pitied and protected,--but he was
not a murderer--Judith’s faith remained unshaken. With all her woman’s
wit she would prove him worthy of her trust and devotion, and clear
him of any suspicion of complicity in Austin’s murder.

But how to go about it? The locket had disappeared while she and her
husband were sitting in the boudoir through which the thief had to pass
to enter the bedroom. There was but one person to her knowledge to
whom the locket was of vital importance--Polly Davis. And she, Judith,
had informed Polly that it was in her possession only a short time
before its disappearance. But the only living persons who had had an
opportunity to steal her jewelry were--herself or her husband.

Judith shuddered--had Joe’s thieving propensities caused him to take
her jewelry? Her back had been toward him when he went to get her glass
of water, but even if there had been time for him to slip into their
bedroom and get the jewelry, where had he hidden it without her seeing
him? Judith stared dully at the opposite wall, despair tugging at her
heartstrings.

“Hello, Judith,” called a cheery voice from the doorway, and Judith,
whirling around with a violent start, saw Dr. McLane, black bag in
hand, looking at her. “I have just been upstairs treating Anna’s ankle
and I stopped in here on my way out to see if any one was at home.”

“Come in, doctor,” she exclaimed. “You have arrived in answer to my
thoughts.”

As he took her extended hand in greeting he glanced quickly at her--her
palm was dry and hot to the touch. Instantly his fingers sought her
pulse.

“Come, Judith, this won’t do,” he remonstrated gravely. “Your pulse is
pounding like a millrace. I have cautioned you before--”

“Please, doctor, don’t scold,” she pleaded. “It is only caused by
momentary excitement. I’ll calm down after a talk with you.”

“Will you?” doubtfully. “Well, fire away.”

Judith wheeled a chair around. “Do sit down,” she coaxed, “I can’t
think of a thing to say while you stand with that air of bolting away.”

McLane laughed as he followed her wishes, placing the black bag within
reach. “I am all attention,” he declared. “Go ahead.”

“Can kleptomania be cured?”

McLane stared at her; the question was unexpected.

“Not permanently,” he replied, and Judith, who was toying with a fan
which was attached to a silk cord about her neck, raised it to her lips
to hide their trembling.

“What are its symptoms?” she asked.

“Symptoms?” The surgeon was distinctly puzzled by her questions. “It
is a mental derangement usually found among the wealthy class, for
the craze lies in the _act_ of stealing, and the article stolen is
of indifference to the genuine kleptomaniac and is often of no value
whatever. A thief steals for gain for himself or another.”

“I see.” Judith paused, and a moment later Dr. McLane, who had been
openly studying her--though she was unconscious of it--roused her from
her bitter thoughts.

“Where are your mother and Major Richards?” he inquired.

“They have gone to Walter Reed Hospital to see Major LeFevre,” she
explained. “I did not feel equal to the long trip and had them leave me
here after a short turn on the speedway.”

“It would have been better had you stayed out in the fresh air,”
commented McLane frankly. “You are brooding too much, Judith. I
fear”--with a keen glance at her--“Austin’s death has upset you more
than you realize.”

“We are all upset,” she admitted. “And the suspense--not knowing who is
guilty of the crime is terrible.” She paused a moment. “Could it have
been suicide?”

McLane shook his head. “Impossible, judging from the nature of the
wound,” he insisted. “The autopsy proved that.”

Judith straightened up. “You were present at the autopsy, were you not?”

“Yes.”

“Doctor,”--Judith’s hesitation was perceptible as she toyed with her
fan--“do you believe that Austin was stabbed with a pair of shears?”

“That is a difficult question to answer offhand, Judith,” he replied
gravely. “Austin’s death was caused by a punctured wound. These wounds,
Judith, are generally smaller in circumference than the weapon used,
for the skin is stretched and yields to a certain extent. Therefore the
wound might have been inflicted with long, slender shears.”

Judith considered his answer in silence, a silence which seemed endless
to the busy surgeon. Finally, with a glance at her and another at the
dial of the clock, he rose and picked up his bag.

“I must go, Judith,” he said. “Take my advice, child, and lie down for
a while. If you don’t you will be added to my list of patients. Please
do as I ask you.”

Few could resist McLane’s charming smile, and Judith’s “I will” was
prompt. She experienced a strange reluctance to have him go, and only
an exertion of her self-control prevented her from calling him back as
she closed the front door on his retreating figure. In her room Judith
did her best to comply with McLane’s request, but she could not lie
still on the bed. Finally, unable longer to control her desire for
motion, she got up and wandered into the boudoir. From there she went
to her father’s den. He was not there, and Judith with a glance into
his bedroom, closed the door, and, going over to his desk, she sat down
before it and went carefully through his papers.

It was dusk, the early dusk of a winter afternoon when Judith again
entered the library. Anna, the waitress, had not performed her usual
duties of turning on the electric lights, and Judith contented herself
with switching on the lamp nearest her father’s safe. Dropping on her
knees before it, she propped a playing card on a stool beside her, and,
placing her hand on the knob of the steel door, turned the dial. It was
slow, laborious work and perspiration trickled into Judith’s eyes. She
saw but dimly the Knave of Hearts--the red of the playing card alone
showed up plainly. A last twist of her wrist and the heavy steel door
swung backward, and Judith sank down in a crouching position to rest
her cramped muscles.

She was still looking directly inside the safe when a handkerchief
was drawn across her eyes and a hand detached the wire connecting her
earphone and the little electric battery which she wore tucked inside
her belt. Completely taken by surprise and too paralyzed to move,
Judith sat motionless as the hand, having completed its mission, slid
around and covered her mouth. Then, before she could scramble to her
feet, hands dragged her backward until she felt herself resting against
a table leg. It took but a moment to tie her to it; the next instant a
handkerchief gag replaced the hand across her mouth.

For what seemed an eternity Judith sat without motion, cut off from
sound, from sight--

Surely the distorted silhouettes dancing before her vision were
creatures of her imagination! Or could it be the shadows of real people
seen through the folds of the handkerchief?

Bound, blindfolded, gagged, deprived of her earphone, and her hearing
deadened by nature, Judith’s heart was beating with suffocating
rapidity. She must get aid--aid before she fainted. Instinctively she
bit and worried her gag, and the handkerchief, insecurely tied, parted
finally. Judith filled her lungs with air, moistened her parched lips,
and tried to call for help.

The whispered cry reached only to the confines of the room. To Judith’s
ears no sound penetrated, and she waited in agony. Had her shout
carried beyond the library? Surely the maids, her father--some one must
hear her?

She opened her mouth for another attempt, and an oblong object was
thrust between her teeth and lashed around her head. Once again she was
left to herself. The excruciating pain produced by the new gag caused
Judith to clench her teeth against it so as to relieve the pressure on
the strained flesh.

Judith had lost all track of time when suddenly she felt the cords,
binding her to the table leg, loosened, and, as consciousness left her,
she was lifted upward, a dead weight.




CHAPTER XVIII

EDGED TOOLS


ROBERT HALE crossed the central hall and entered the library with
characteristic haste. On finding only a solitary light burning, he
stopped and switched on the other lamps until the library was flooded
with light.

“Hello!” he exclaimed, catching sight of Major Richards standing in
front of the fireplace. “Glad you are ready for dinner. It never fails,
Joe, if I am hungry, Mrs. Hale is always late. She never has a well
regulated appetite.”

Richards laughed. “Your wife told me not to change into a dinner coat,”
he explained, glancing apologetically at his sack suit. “She said we
were so late in getting back from Walter Reed Hospital that there was
not time.”

“Beastly bore changing for dinner.” Hale wandered aimlessly about the
library. “Agatha insists upon it, so”--a shrug completed the sentence.
“See that you imbue Judith with the idea that you are master, and you
will enjoy future peace of mind.”

“I cannot conceive of Judith’s ever requiring a master,” retorted
Richards, a trifle heatedly, and Hale laughed.

“You are young and you haven’t been married long,” he remarked
indulgently. “Where’s Judith?”

“She hasn’t come down yet.” Richards removed his foot from the brass
fire iron and stood with his back to the mantel. “I plan to take Judith
to Palm Beach on Thursday.”

“You do, eh?” and Hale looked taken aback.

“Yes,” steadily. “Judith is not strong.”

Hale did not reply. Instead, he scrutinized his son-in-law from his
well shod foot to the top of his short cropped hair. There was an air
of distinction, of courage, in Richards’ carriage and in his firm chin
and clear eyes, eyes which did not waver before Hale’s piercing glance.

“That is not a bad plan of yours,” Hale remarked finally. “Perhaps
Agatha and I will follow you in a week or two. The fact is”--he
selected a chair near Richards--“Austin’s death and the mystery
surrounding it are getting on every one’s nerves. It is demoralizing
the household. The police--bah! they are incompetents. They never see
the obvious.”

“And what is the obvious, Mr. Hale?”

Hale hesitated and cast a doubtful look at his son-in-law.

“The curious behavior of a certain female--”

Richards bent forward and stared at him, waiting for the sentence to be
completed.

“What female do you allude to?” he demanded impatiently, breaking the
pause.

The portières were pulled aside, and Anna, the waitress, appeared,
silver salver in hand.

“Beg pardon, Mr. Hale, but here is a telegram for Miss Davis,” and she
extended it to him. “The messenger refused to take it to her house
address.”

“Very well, I will see that it is forwarded.” Hale put on his glasses,
inspected the Western Union envelope and its address, then laid the
telegram on the table. “Has Mr. John returned, Anna?”

“No, sir,” and Anna limped away to the pantry by way of the dining room
as Mrs. Hale stepped between the portières in front of the doorway
leading to the central hall.

“Now, don’t say I am late, Robert,” she began. “I have lost no time,
and I do believe I am down before Judith,” with a quick glance about
the library. “What did you do with yourself this afternoon?”

“Took a walk,” laconically. Hale drummed his fingers on the chair, and
Richards wondered for the second time what made him so restless. He had
always an alertness of manner, but to Richards it now appeared almost
furtive. Hale pointed to the clock. “Why do we have to wait for Judith
and John?” he demanded. “Suppose we go in to dinner.”

Richards left his place by the mantel. “I’ll go for Judith,” he
volunteered. “I would have done so before, Mrs. Hale; I but stopped in
here on our return, thinking she would come in every minute.”

As he crossed the library, a door slammed in the distance and heavy
footsteps approached just as Richards reached the portières. They were
dragged aside and he came face to face with John Hale whose labored
breathing indicated haste or excitement, or both combined.

“So you are here!” John Hale exclaimed in high satisfaction, and called
over his shoulder, “Come in, Ferguson. No, you don’t,” as Richards, who
had stepped back courteously to permit him to advance into the library,
started for the hall. “You’ll stay here and face the music,” and he
thrust out his hand to push him back.

“Take your hands off my shoulder,” commanded Richards, his anger rising
both at his words and action. “What do you wish with me?”

“I wish you to explain in the presence of witnesses”--John Hale
cast a triumphant look at his brother and sister-in-law before
continuing--“how you obtained this watch,” and, drawing it out of his
pocket, he swung it before Richards.

Richards looked first at the watch and then at his questioner.

“It would be just as well if you first explained how it came into your
possession,” he remarked quietly, and John Hale crimsoned.

“Don’t take that tone with me,” he exclaimed. “I have the law behind
me.”

“If the law is represented in the person of Detective Ferguson, it is
loitering directly back of you,” broke in his brother who, with Mrs.
Hale, had drawn closer to the two angry men. “Come in, Ferguson, don’t
stand on the outskirts. My brother is not really so formidable as he
appears.”

Ferguson, who had purposely remained in the background, an interested
spectator of the scene, flushed at Hale’s mocking tone and entered the
library with some precipitancy. Hale watched him in open amusement,
then he turned to his brother.

“Continue your remarks, John,” he directed. “We are waiting.”

“I am addressing Major Richards and not you,” retorted his brother.
“Well, sir, what about the watch?”

“I am waiting for an answer to my question, Mr. Hale,” responded
Richards.

“How I got the watch doesn’t concern you.” John Hale spoke with more
deliberation. “How you obtained possession of Austin’s watch does
concern--the police.”

“Austin’s watch!” gasped Mrs. Hale. “Good heavens!” She leaned nearer
and inspected it, taking care not to touch the watch. “Where did it
come from?”

“That is what I am asking Major Richards. Perhaps he will be more
courteous and answer your question, as it is addressed by a woman”--and
John Hale looked scornfully at Richards.

“The gibe is unnecessary,” retorted the latter. “As the watch is in
your possession and not in mine, it is up to you to explain how you got
it.”

Hale laughed outright. “He has you there, John,” he chuckled. “Have
you an answer ready?”

Ignoring his brother, John Hale addressed himself exclusively to
Richards.

“Austin’s watch was sent to this house by Jennings, the watchmaker,
with whom you left it to have the chain repaired. See, it bears your
name,” and he displayed the label still attached to the watch. Richards
read the words on it with interest.

“Well, what have you to say?” demanded John Hale, as he made no remark.

“That the watch bears my name does not prove that I left the watch with
this man, Jennings,” Richards stated, and John Hale turned triumphantly
to the detective.

“There, didn’t I tell you he would take that attitude?” he cried. “It
won’t do, Richards. Ferguson and I have just seen Jennings and he
described you accurately in giving an account of the man who left the
watch with him on Wednesday--mind you, later in the same morning on
which Austin was found murdered. How did you get possession of Austin’s
watch?”

Richards looked steadily at the excited man before him, at the
others--noting instantly the serious expression of Mrs. Hale’s
countenance, her husband’s intent interest, and Ferguson’s keen
attention. Then, slowly, he glanced around the library--Judith was not
present. He drew a long breath.

“I decline to answer your question, Mr. Hale,” he said.

Ferguson stepped forward. “It would be best, Major, if you did,” he
suggested. “That is a bit of friendly advice.”

“Thanks,” dryly. “Had you not better warn me that anything I say will
be used against me?”

Hale chuckled, then grew serious. “Come, John, what does this scene
mean?” he demanded of his brother. “What are you trying to prove?”

“That Major Richards has a guilty knowledge of, or is guilty of,
Austin’s murder,” he replied, and at his words a cry broke from Mrs.
Hale and she collapsed in the nearest chair.

Richards looked at John Hale in silence for a brief second.

“So that is it,” he exclaimed. “I congratulate you on your acumen. Now,
perhaps you will tell me why I murdered a man whom I had never seen?”

“Oh, don’t say that, don’t,” wailed Mrs. Hale. “I found your name in
Austin’s membership book of his Senior secret society at Yale.”

Richards regarded her in surprise. “Certainly my name is in the book;
but I graduated at Yale before Austin’s freshman year.”

John Hale smothered an oath. “Whether you knew Austin or not is
immaterial. When a man is caught in the act of burglarizing a safe
he doesn’t need an introduction to the man who detects him--he kills
him--as you murdered Austin.”

Richards shrugged his shoulder. “You will have it that way,” he
spoke with studied indifference, as he again stole a look about the
room--where was Judith? “Has it ever occurred to you that Austin might
have been rifling Mr. Hale’s safe and was killed in the act--”

“By whom?” gasped Mrs. Hale; her face was ashen in color.

“I leave that conundrum to the police,” replied Richards. “It was but a
suggestion.”

“Which carries no weight,” retorted John Hale. “This watch isn’t the
only thing we have on you, Richards.” He turned to his brother. “What
was stolen from your safe on Tuesday night?”

Mrs. Hale’s sudden start was lost on her husband. Hale looked at
Richards queerly, thought a minute, then answered with brevity.

“Ten bonds of the Troy Valve Company belonging to Judith.”

“And those bonds, Richards, you sold to cover your losses in
speculation,” declared John Hale.

Richards contemplated the two brothers in thunderstruck silence.

“You say that Judith had Valve bonds in your safe which were stolen on
Tuesday night, Mr. Hale?” he demanded of the elder brother.

“Yes.”

“So it was your wife’s bonds which you first stole and then sold”--John
Hale was enjoying himself. He had caught the hunted look in Richards’
eyes. Turning, he winked at Ferguson, and when he again faced Richards,
the latter had himself well in hand.

“You have stated twice now that I sold Valve bonds,” Richards began.
“It is up to you to prove it.”

“And I can”--wheeling around, John Hale seized the desk telephone and
repeated a number. A second more and he called into the instrument:

“John Hale speaking, Frank. Come over to the house as quickly as you
can. Polly--what about Polly?--I don’t catch that--tell me when you
get here,” and he banged up the receiver, then turned to the others in
the library. “It won’t take Latimer five minutes to reach here.”

“And why is his presence required?” questioned Richards. “It strikes me
that this scene has been prolonged unnecessarily.”

“Possibly, from your viewpoint.” John Hale’s smile was not pleasant.
“Don’t get nervous at this stage of the game.”

Richards’ eyes blazed and he made a quick step in his direction--to
find the way blocked by Detective Ferguson.

“None o’ that,” he exclaimed hastily. “Remember, Mrs. Hale is present.”

Richards pulled himself together and his right arm dropped to his side.

“I quite understand that Mr. John Hale is aware that he has the
protection of a woman’s presence,” he remarked. Again Robert Hale
chuckled faintly, while his brother, coloring hotly, had difficulty
in curbing his unruly tongue. The latter turned abruptly to his
sister-in-law.

“Agatha, suppose you leave us,” he suggested.

“I will not,” and Mrs. Hale, whose eyes were twice their usual size,
squared herself in her seat. “I gather, John, I am needed here to keep
you in order.”

“Quite right, my dear,” and her husband patted her approvingly on the
back, before turning to his brother. “Now, John, if you have any more
remarks to address to Major Richards, omit all personalities or”--his
voice deepened--“I shall have to request you to leave the room.”

Ferguson caught the look that John Hale shot at his brother and stepped
gamely into the breach. He had divined earlier in the investigation
that it took little to arouse the smoldering animosity between the
brothers.

“Major Richards,” he commenced, “you told Coroner Penfield that you
spent Tuesday evening at the Metropolitan Club. At what hour did you
leave the club for home?”

Richards considered the question. “It was just midnight,” he stated. “I
am positive as to the time for the clocks were chiming when I left the
building, and I waited and counted the strokes--twelve of them.”

The detective consulted a page in his notebook. “You also told the
coroner that you reached here about twenty minutes past one on
Wednesday morning. Where did you stop between here and the club?”

“Nowhere.”

Ferguson eyed him intently. “The club is about fifteen minutes walk
from here, at the outside,” he declared. “Do you contend that it took
you over an hour to reach this house?”

“Yes,” quietly. “Your circles and avenues are confusing and I lost my
way.”

John Hale laughed aloud. “A great alibi,” he sneered. “Austin was
murdered between Tuesday midnight and one A. M. Wednesday--thus you had
ample time to reach here, kill him, leave the house and return a few
minutes after one o’clock.”

“You think so?” Richards shrugged his shoulders disdainfully. “Well,
prove it.”

“I will.” John Hale waved his walking stick which he had brought with
him into the library in his haste to encounter Richards. “And here’s
one link in the chain now,” as Frank Latimer was ushered in by Anna,
the waitress, whose curious glance at the excited group escaped notice.
“Frank, did Major Richards sell ten bonds of the Troy Valve Company in
your office on Friday afternoon?”

“He did.” The little stockbroker stared at each in turn, and the
gravity of their expression was reflected in his manner.

“Did Judith call there that same afternoon?” Richards’ violent start
was seen by all, and John Hale’s eyes gleamed viciously as he
continued his questions. “Did she tell you that she owned ten bonds of
the Troy Valve Company, numbering from 37982 to 37991?”

“Yes.”

“And did those numbers correspond with the numbers on the bonds sold
you by Major Richards?”

“They did.”

John Hale turned to his brother. “You have a memorandum of Judith’s
bonds which were stolen from your safe on Tuesday night,” he stated.
“Repeat the numbers.”

There was a slight hesitation in Hale’s manner before he complied with
his brother’s abrupt request. Opening his leather wallet, he found a
memorandum and ran his eye down it.

“The numbers are the same,” he said, and replaced his wallet.

“Well, Richards, have you anything to say?” demanded John Hale, and
edged nearer him.

“Nothing--to you,” and John Hale flushed at his cutting tone.

“Perhaps you’ll have something to say to me, Major,” broke in Detective
Ferguson. “Will you tell us how you got those bonds?”

Richards eyed the little group; his gaze rested longest on Robert
Hale, then he turned to Ferguson, as the detective repeated his
question.

“No,” he responded. “I will not tell you.”

Mrs. Hale leaned forward and placed a trembling hand on his arm.

“Did Judith give you the bonds?” she asked timidly.

“No, Mrs. Hale, she did not,” and Richards, catching her pitying
look, felt a sudden tightening of his heartstrings. It was the first
expression of sympathy vouchsafed him. Where--where was Judith?

Ferguson broke the brief pause.

“Major Richards,” he began, and Mrs. Hale clutched her chair in her
excitement. Her head felt heavy, her breathing stifled--Dr. McLane had
warned her about a weak heart. “You have heard Mr. Latimer, a reputable
witness, testify that you sold bonds belonging to your wife, and Mr.
Hale, your father-in-law, has stated that those bonds were stolen from
his safe on Tuesday night. You declare that you left the Metropolitan
Club on Tuesday at midnight, and that you lost your way and spent an
hour walking about the streets before reaching this house at twenty
minutes past one o’clock on Wednesday morning. Can you substantiate
that statement with witnesses?”

“I cannot.” Richards’ gaze was unwavering and his voice firm, but his
face was white and strained. “I met no one while walking home. That was
the chief reason for my delay, because I had no opportunity to ask the
right direction to take. I have no sense of locality.”

“Humph, very pretty!” commented John Hale, and Detective Ferguson
scowled at him.

“I’m handling this case, Mr. Hale.” He spoke harshly, and John Hale
showed instant resentment by returning the scowl as the detective again
addressed Richards. “You left the watch belonging to the murdered man,
Austin Hale, with Jennings to repair. That is conclusive evidence that
the watch had been in your possession.”

“So you claim”--and Richards smiled politely. “Don’t let me interrupt
your little romance, Ferguson. Go on.”

Ferguson swallowed his wrath. “I am stating facts, Major, facts which
have been proved. Once more I’ll give you a chance to state your
version of how Austin’s watch came into your possession, and the Valve
bonds as well.”

“Thanks.” Richards’ brows were knit in a deep frown. “Do I understand
that I am your prisoner?”

Ferguson drew out a legal document. “I have this warrant for your
arrest,” he admitted.

“Then I will reserve what I have to say until I see a lawyer.”

“But, Major--”

“No, Ferguson,” firmly. “A prisoner’s right to consult a lawyer is
a constitutional right.”

“Prisoner!” Mrs. Hale started from her chair. “Robert--”

Robert Hale stepped forward. “Sit down, Agatha.” He pushed her gently
back in her chair before turning to Ferguson. “Who swore out that
warrant?”

“Your brother, Mr. John Hale.”

“So”--Hale faced his brother. “Have you forgotten our conversation
early this afternoon?”

“I have not.” John Hale shouldered Latimer to one side as he stepped
nearer the center of the room. “You tried to fasten Austin’s murder
on an innocent girl to shield your daughter’s husband.”

“An innocent girl!” Hale’s mocking smile brought his brother’s rage
to fever heat. “So innocent that when she quarreled with her lover at
their midnight meeting she killed him with her shears--shears which I
had bought for her the week before.” Swiftly he turned to Ferguson.
“Release Major Richards and arrest the real criminal, Polly Davis.”

An oath broke from John Hale, and in blind fury he twirled his walking
stick. His brother, by a dexterous twist only, avoided the thrust.
As the steel point of the sword cane came to rest directly under the
powerful light from a standing reading lamp, a scream escaped Mrs. Hale.

“Look, look!” she cried. “It’s covered with blood.”




CHAPTER XIX

THE UNSEEN EAR


AS if hypnotized, John Hale stared at his sword cane, raising it
slowly, very slowly, then as slowly dropped the point and gazed at his
brother.

“It _is_ blood,” he gasped. “But you are unhurt?”

“Yes.” Robert Hale’s voice was not quite steady. “You did not reach me.”

“Then where did this blood come from?” demanded John Hale. “It’s--it’s
not _fresh_,” and there was a growing horror in the look he cast at his
companions.

Ferguson, who had followed every act and word with rapt attention,
picked up the bamboo cane casing which John Hale had tossed to the
floor when he drew the concealed weapon and lunged at his brother.
Stepping up to the dazed man, the detective took the sword from his
unresisting hand and examined it with interest.

“Austin Hale was killed by a rapier-like thrust,” he stated slowly.
“The autopsy proved that the wound was greater in depth than in
length. Is this your cane, Mr. Hale?”

John Hale wet his dry lips. “It is,” he muttered, and looked dumbly at
his silent, motionless companions.

“You carry it always?” asked Ferguson with dogged persistence.

“When I go out, yes.”

“Who knows that this ordinary-appearing bamboo cane conceals a rapier?”

“My brother.” John Hale avoided looking at them, his eyes were still on
the sword cane.

“Any one else?”

“N--no.”

“Quite sure?” and Ferguson tried to meet his eye.

“No--yes.” With an effort John Hale recovered some semblance of his
usual manner. “I may have spoken of the cane but I don’t recall doing
so. I bought it from an antique dealer and it’s been a fad of mine to
carry it.”

“I see.” Ferguson considered him steadily for a moment. “Where were you
on Tuesday night?”

“At the French Embassy reception.”

“Mrs. Hale,”--the detective spoke her name with such sharpness that she
jumped involuntarily--“was your brother-in-law with you at the Embassy
between midnight Tuesday and one o’clock Wednesday morning?”

Mrs. Hale looked at no one in particular and wrung her hands.

“Must I answer?” she begged, turning imploringly to her husband and, as
she caught his expression, exclaimed: “No, I refuse to.”

“Don’t put yourself out for me, Agatha.” There was a sudden utter
weariness in John Hale’s tone, and Richards started and looked at him
intently. What did it portend? “I will answer your question, Ferguson.
I was not at the French Embassy during that time.”

“Where were you?”

There was a tense silence. When John Hale answered he spoke hardly
above a whisper.

“I had returned to this house to meet my stepson, Austin.”

Mrs. Hale collapsed. “Oh, dear! oh, dear, I’ve feared it all along,”
she wailed, and burst into tears. “Oh, Polly, Polly, you have a lot to
answer for!”

“Have I?” asked a strained voice, and Polly Davis, who had been a
stunned witness of the scene, advanced a few steps further into the
room, Anna, the waitress, peering over her shoulder with wide, curious
eyes. “Well, I am here to face the consequences.”

John Hale, who had not taken his eyes from her ghastly face, sprang to
her side.

“No!” he exclaimed vehemently. “No. Go home.”

“Presently,” she silenced him with an imperative gesture, before
turning to the detective.

“Whom do you accuse of the murder of Austin Hale?” she asked.

Ferguson scratched a bewildered head. “I did believe Major Richards
guilty,” he admitted slowly. “But seeing that Mr. Hale states he came
back here to meet his stepson, that Austin was killed at that time with
a rapier thrust, and that Mr. Hale’s sword cane has bloodstains on
it--” He paused. “Well, taking all that into consideration and with the
knowledge that he and Austin were not on good terms--I guess--it looks
as if Mr. Hale killed him.”

Polly drew a long, painful breath. “Wait,” she cautioned. “I was here
on Tuesday night.”

“Hush!” commanded John, a look of agony on his strong face.

“No, I must speak.” Polly partly turned from him and addressed the
others. “I wrote Austin on Saturday breaking our engagement, but as
Monday was Washington’s Birthday he never received the letter until
Tuesday morning. In answer I had a wire from Austin stating that he
would get here Tuesday about midnight. I”--her voice quivered a bit,
then steadied--“it was imperative that I see him without delay, so I
came, admitting myself with Mrs. Hale’s latchkey which I had borrowed
one day last week. I walked into the library”--she caught her breath.

“Stop, Polly,” pleaded John Hale. “Stop. You don’t know what you are
saying.” Seeing that she paid no attention to his words, he appealed to
the detective. “For God’s sake tell her to stop--it’s not fair--it’s
cruel--she shall not convict herself.”

“What are you insinuating?” cried Polly. “Convict myself? Are you mad?
Austin was stabbed before I entered this house.”

The five men eyed each other in silence, then concentrated their
attention upon her, forgetful of Mrs. Hale, of Anna--waiting for her to
continue.

“I saw Austin lying on the floor,” she went on, her voice husky with
emotion. “The shock made me cry out, then my whole impulse was to run,
to hide. I reached the central hall and paused to gather strength; a
faint noise on the staircase caused me to look in that direction and I
made out dimly a man peering at me over the bannisters”-- She paused.
“Mr. Robert Hale, why are you using a dictograph in this house?”

Hale looked at her in dumb surprise--twice he opened his lips to speak
and twice closed them with the words unspoken. Richards, standing
somewhat in the background, bent forward in a listening attitude.

“What’s that noise?” he demanded. “Listen!”

Through the silence came a faint drumming, it grew louder, then died
away, to break out again a little louder, more insistently.

“By heavens, it comes from the alcove!” exclaimed Richards, and racing
across the room, he dashed aside the heavy red satin curtains pulled
across it. A horrified exclamation escaped him, and he recoiled at
sight of Judith, bound and gagged, lying on the window seat. Her body
had slipped down the piled up sofa cushions and her right foot just
touched the paneled wall and with it she was beating the devil’s tattoo.

“Good God!” gasped Richards, then recovering himself, tore at her
fastenings. Ferguson, more clear-headed than the other, slashed at the
clothes’ line which bound her with John Hale’s sword cane, and aided
him in carrying her to a chair by the table.

“Chafe her arms and ankles so that the blood will circulate,” he
advised, while his nimble fingers untied the cord holding the fan,
which had been thrust into her mouth as a gag.

Judith, who had watched their efforts in silent agony, raised her
cramped arms and massaged the stiffened muscles of her mouth and jaw;
then she replaced the wires connecting her earphone and its battery.

“In God’s name who has treated you so, Judith?” demanded Richards, his
eyes were blazing with rage. “Who has dared to--” and he choked.

“Fetch my smelling salts,” Judith spoke with some difficulty and paused
eagerly to drink the water offered her by Frank Latimer. “No, don’t go,
Anna,” placing her hand on the waitress’ shoulder as she knelt at her
side chafing her ankles. “Ring for Maud.”

Her father complied with her request, then returned to Judith. For the
first time he looked old and haggard.

“What’s the meaning of all this?” he demanded, with a return of his
domineering manner.

Judith looked at her husband for a fleeting second, then addressed
Detective Ferguson whose attention was focused on her.

“I have a confession to make to you,” she began. “You recall finding
the bloodstained shears near Austin’s body?”

“Yes,” he said, as she paused.

“I used them.”

“Judith!” Richards sprang forward with an imploring gesture, but for
once his wife ignored him.

“I used them,” she reiterated, “to remove a locket from Austin’s watch
chain when I found him lying dead in this library. That locket,” she
paused to take the smelling salts which Maud who had hurriedly entered
a second before handed to her,--“that locket Polly Davis stole from my
bedroom last night with other jewelry.”

No one spoke, and Judith, resting one hand on Anna’s shoulder and the
other on Maud’s arm, rose stiffly to her feet.

“Late this afternoon,” Judith continued, “I was examining Father’s
safe,”--Hale started violently--“when some one stole behind me,
blindfolded me, disconnected my earphone, and gagged me.”

“Well, well, go on,” urged Detective Ferguson, forgetting, in his
interest, his usual respectful manner.

“I was gagged,” repeated Judith, “with my fan. The thief did not know
that this fan”--she raised it as she spoke--“is an ear trumpet which
when pressed against my teeth enables me to hear distinctly.”

Her right hand moved upward with a sweeping motion, and Maud, the
parlor maid, was shorn of her cap and wig.

Ferguson recovered from his stupefaction in time to trip and catch the
flying figure.

“Jim Turner,” he gasped, as the handcuffs slipped over the wrists of
the erstwhile maid. “I’ve been looking for you for five years.”

“And you have found the murderer of Austin Hale,” ended Judith.




CHAPTER XX

RUN TO COVER


IN stunned silence the little group eyed Detective Ferguson and
his prisoner. Slowly the latter rose from his hands and knees, the
handcuffs clinking musically as he knocked against Ferguson’s left
wrist to which he was secured.

“Easy,” cautioned Ferguson, and the revolver in his right hand menaced
the murderer. “You’ll get no chance to escape now, Jim,” with emphasis,
then with reluctant admiration as he scanned Turner’s good-looking
effeminate features and his slight trim figure in its woman’s costume.
“Say, but you are a pretty girl. I never once suspected you, never.”

“And I’d have kept you fooled,” retorted Turner, “except for you,”
addressing Judith. “You were one too many for me with those cursed
unseen ears,” and he cast a look of baffled fury at her fan. “I thought
you were practically dead to the world when I disconnected that blamed
earphone and blindfolded you.”

“You put too much confidence in your own cleverness,” Judith responded.
“It would have been wiser if you and your confederate had ransacked
Father’s safe in silence, instead of discussing your desperate need, on
account of Austin’s murder, of getting away--and thus giving me a clew
to your identity.”

“Who is your confederate?” demanded Ferguson. A scowl was his only
answer. “Oh, well, you’ll talk more later,” with significant emphasis,
“in the Death House.”

Turner’s face was distorted with rage. “To think I’ll have to swing for
that hound, Austin Hale!” he stormed. “He welshed on every one, the
yellow dog.”

“What was your motive for killing him?” asked Robert Hale, recovering
from his stupefied surprise at the course of events.

Turner looked at him in silence for a minute, then at the others in the
library. Their concentrated regard fanned his inordinate vanity and--in
spite of Ferguson’s words, the Death House seemed remote.

“Why did I kill Austin Hale? Because he penetrated my disguise.” He
paused, then continued more rapidly. “It must have been shortly before
midnight when I was going to bed--every one else had retired and I
could hear Anna and the cook snoring in their rooms,”--Anna’s face
was a study as she glared at the man she had known as “Maud”--“and I
supposed I had locked my bedroom door. I was shaving--had to do it at
dead of night,” he interpolated, “when in the glass I saw the hall
door open a little way and Austin Hale peered into the room. I was too
paralyzed to turn round and he stared at my reflection in the glass,
then, collecting himself, he softly closed the door and silently stole
away.”

No one cared to break the silence as Turner ceased speaking, a second
more and he had resumed his statement.

“I wiped the shaving lather off my face, straightened my wig and crept
down the hall. I heard Austin moving about in his room and I went back,
but I could not stay there. I don’t know now what brought Austin to my
door at that hour, unless he wanted me to aid him in seeing Miss Polly
Davis, but he had raised the devil in me. It wouldn’t take him long to
establish my identity and then would follow exposure, and that meant,
with my record, doing fully fifteen years in the penitentiary.”

“Better that than swinging for murder,” commented Ferguson dryly.

“Not as I felt then,” retorted Turner. “My brain was on fire as I
stole downstairs and trailed him to the library. On the way I saw Mr.
John Hale’s sword cane in the umbrella stand. I’d seen him open it
once or twice to show to Miss Polly.” Ferguson shot a look at Polly
and John Hale. They had drawn close to each other and stood listening
breathlessly to Turner’s story.

“So some one beside your brother knew about your sword cane, Mr. Hale,”
Ferguson remarked with a quizzical smile, and John Hale nodded.

“Go ahead, Turner,” he said, and the prisoner, with a resentful glare
at Detective Ferguson, again addressed them, confining his remarks
almost exclusively to Judith.

“I knew how to work the spring of the sword cane, for I had played
with it several times when Mr. John left it behind, and so I picked up
the cane on Tuesday night and stole into the dining room.” In spite of
himself, Turner’s voice was not quite steady. It quivered and deepened
as he lived over again the events of that fateful night.

“I intended to peek through the portières into the library, for not
hearing a sound in there puzzled me. The portières were parted a wee
bit and I made out Miss Judith sitting at the far end before the
fireplace with her back partly turned toward me. Then”--his voice
changed, holding a note of horror--“Austin Hale loomed up before me,
right under the sidelight. I could have touched his shirt-bosom,
instead--My God! I lunged and the sword cane struck home.”

“I heard Austin fall,” Turner resumed after a tense pause, “and
instinctively tiptoed to the pantry and crouched there in the dark. I
heard you come in, Major, and Miss Judith call to you. Then after what
seemed an interminable time I crept out into the central hall, found it
deserted, and replaced the cane in the umbrella stand.”

“Didn’t you go at all into the library?” demanded Robert Hale harshly.

“Yes, after Miss Polly had been there.” He cast a vicious look in the
girl’s direction. “I heard some one sobbing in the library as I started
to leave the pantry and peeked in again in time to see you wringing
your hands over Austin’s body--you are a weak sister to sob over the
man who threatened you with exposure.”

“You--” John Hale started forward, but Major Richards’ tall figure
blocked him. “Get out of my way, I’ll throttle that fellow.”

“Not here, you won’t,” interposed Ferguson. “Keep quiet, Mr. Hale,
until Turner completes his confession.”

“Tell him to speak more respectfully of Miss Davis--or not mention her
at all,” thundered John Hale.

“What happened next?” demanded his brother. “Shut up, John,” and he
waved him back. “What did Miss Davis do next, Turner?”

“Cleared out,” succinctly, “first taking a look at the sword cane
standing so innocently in the umbrella stand.” Turner’s chuckle was
unpleasant. “That left the coast clear for me and I slipped into the
library. There the open safe attracted me,” with a side-long glance at
Hale. “I had picked up my rubber gloves, used in my house work, when
in the pantry and I put ’em on. The open safe was too good a chance
to overlook, but I only had time to grab a few bonds and a memorandum
which Austin had been looking at”--a gasp escaped Mrs. Hale--“then I
beat it up the back stairs to my room, for I heard some one coming
down. I guess it was you, Major.”

“It was,” acknowledged Richards. He cast a hesitating look at Judith
before continuing. “I did lose my way, as I have already stated, when
walking home, and I entered the front door just in time to catch
Judith as she fainted. I immediately carried her upstairs and laid
her on the couch in our boudoir. I had some cognac there and quickly
revived her.” He paused for a second. “The reading lamp was burning in
the boudoir and I concluded that Judith had come downstairs feeling
faint and in search of some medicine which, I recalled, had been left
in the library. When she revived, she said nothing to me about having
gone downstairs, and when I asked her if she needed her medicine, she
replied that she did.”

“Please wait, Joe,” Judith interrupted him quickly. “I was
dazed--completely unnerved. In fact I had at the time no recollection
of fainting in the hall. I thought, until you questioned me the other
night, that you had found me unconscious in the boudoir, so I never
mentioned that after Mother and Uncle John left for the French Embassy
I went down into the library to read and wait for you, Joe.”

“Your silence confused me, puzzled me,” Richards confessed. “In
fact--well, you will understand when I tell you that a gold locket fell
out of your belt when I unloosened it. As I picked up the locket and
placed it by your side on the couch I saw that a gold link fastened to
its ring had been forced apart. A few minutes later I went into the
library and discovered Austin lying dead on the floor.” He turned to
Mrs. Hale. “In stating that I did not know Austin, I told the truth,
but I had seen a photograph of him that morning on Judith’s dressing
table and the photograph bore his autograph. I was horrified at finding
his dead body, and that horror was intensified when, on bending closer,
I discovered that a link in his watch chain was bent and twisted--and
the link attached to the locket tucked in Judith’s belt had come
unmistakably from that chain.”

“Merciful heavens!” Judith gazed at him in horror. “Then you thought--”

“The obvious,” responded Richards. “Your mother had told me that there
had been a boy and girl affair between you, that they confidently
expected an engagement on your return from Japan--”

“Mother!” Mrs. Hale quailed under Judith’s anger.

“Upon my soul, Judith, you need not take that tone with me,” she
objected. “The first intimation we had of your marriage to Joe was a
cable announcing it. A nice way to treat parents who had indulged every
whim.”

“Need we go into that again, Mother?” protested Judith.

“No; but I was hurt, deeply hurt, and I did not take kindly to having
a son-in-law thrust on us.”

“And so you took it out on him by repeating a lot of nonsense,”
exclaimed her husband indignantly. “Well, Richards, I suppose you
concluded that Judith and Austin quarreled and she had stabbed him, and
reached the hall in a fainting condition just as you entered the house?”

“Exactly, sir; Judith’s silence about Austin--for that she had seen him
either dead or alive was proved by her possession of the locket, led me
to fear a frightful tragedy,” admitted Richards. “In my agony of mind I
did the only thing that occurred to me, I took the watch and chain out
of Austin’s vest pocket before sending for the coroner, for I knew it
was a clew the police would trace to the bitter end.”

“But why did you send the watch to Jennings?” asked Hale. “It was
courting discovery.”

“As it turned out, yes; but my idea was that if the chain was repaired
no one would suspect a locket had been wrenched from it,” explained
Richards. “Then it would not have mattered where the watch was found.”

Hale shook his head. “You laid yourself open to grave suspicion,” he
said. “I now understand your actions and your constrained manner,
but--” He stopped. “I missed a playing card out of my solitaire pack
several days ago, a Knave of Hearts, to be exact, on which I had
scratched the combination of my safe.”

“Robert!” The ejaculation came from Mrs. Hale and her husband turned to
her testily.

“I am troubled with amnesia,” he said. “It is just a touch, but I am
sensitive about having it known or suspected, and so occasionally I jot
down figures and numbers. I play solitaire so continuously that I am
never without the safe-combination; but on Friday I missed the card and
the next day asked Maud, or shall we say Jim Turner,”--and he indicated
the pseudo-maid--“if she had seen the card. She brought it to me later,
stating that she had found it on your dresser, Richards, and it led me
to believe that you had a hand in Austin’s murder.”

“Is that why you put a dictograph in our boudoir?” asked Richards.

“Yes,” Hale admitted. “I went to the Burroughs Agency, explained my
suspicions, and they installed it.”

Polly Davis broke her long silence. “I heard you talking to Mr.
Burroughs,” she explained. “I went to the detective agency to ask them
to undertake an investigation for me, but your presence, Mr. Hale,
frightened me away.” She paused and looked at Judith and her father.
“From having seen you on the stairs Tuesday night, Mr. Hale, I began to
suspect that you might have killed Austin. I knew that you and he had
often quarreled in the past--”

“How about John’s scenes with his stepson?” inquired Hale dryly, and
Polly changed color, but she ignored his question as she went bravely
on.

“Your offer to increase my salary and your unsolicited loan, Judith,
increased my suspicion,” she stated. “I thought that you were trying to
bribe me. Then your threat about the locket--”

“What was in the locket?” asked Richards and his father-in-law
simultaneously.

Polly looked swiftly at John Hale and then away. She was deadly white.

“Last week,” she began, “I had a letter from Austin in which he said
that rumors had reached him of my infatuation for”--she stammered, then
went bravely on--“for his stepfather, that if I permitted John to make
love to me he would show him a letter I had written. It was a piece of
sheer folly, but”--her voice trembled--“the letter was compromising.
Austin stated that he kept the letter in a locket I had given him and
would bring them both to Washington.”

“What followed?” asked Mrs. Hale, more absorbed in Polly’s tale than in
all else.

“I wrote Austin that I did not fear his threat and broke our
engagement.” The girl paused. “I have already told you that Austin
wired he would be here Tuesday night. I heard that Mrs. Hale and John
were going to the French Embassy, I knew that Mr. Hale was ill in bed,
and so I came here that night on impulse, trusting to chance to see
Austin alone and persuade him to destroy the letter. The murderer,” she
shuddered, “has testified that I entered the house after he had killed
Austin.” She turned abruptly to Judith. “What was your object in taking
the locket?”

“My desire to shield you,” Judith answered. “Austin wrote me at the
same time he did you, telling of the existence of such a letter, and
that he carried it in a locket to have it in instant readiness. I had
no idea that he would be here Tuesday night, and when I found his body
as I started to leave the library, I jumped to the conclusion, Polly,
that you had killed him and in terror had run away without securing the
locket.”

“Would it not have been easier for you to have taken the watch and
chain as well?” asked Richards.

“I feared that if the watch were missing search would be made for it,”
she explained. “Whereas, if only Polly and I knew about the locket it
would not be missed. I had Polly’s shears in my sewing bag, having
picked them up when in Father’s den early Tuesday afternoon. I dropped
them after securing the locket, and afterwards came down into the
library to get them and found Joe talking to Coroner Penfield and Mr.
Ferguson.”

“Polly,”--Robert Hale’s sudden pronouncement of her name made the girl
start nervously--“why did you supply Austin with the combination of my
safe?”

“I did not give it to him,” she denied indignantly.

“Indeed? Then why did you write this cryptic message, ‘Saw
Austin-10-t-b-53-76c,’ over and over on a page of copied manuscript?”
and Hale held out the sheet he had shown his brother earlier that day.

Polly stared at it. “My mind was far from my work,” she stammered. “I
wrote mechanically on the typewriter any silly sentences that came into
my head. I did know your safe-combination, for you had me write it
down for you once and the figures dwelt in my memory; but indeed I did
not repeat them to Austin.”

“You did not need to,” broke in Mrs. Hale. “I had Austin once open
the safe for me, Robert, in your absence. I needed my jewelry, and I
supposed he remembered the combination or--”

“Or jotted it down for future use,” Turner interrupted her brusquely.
“I found a soiled bit of paper with several numbers torn off on
Austin’s bureau when I slipped in his bedroom on my way to bed. He must
have refreshed his memory before going down to the library by studying
the paper.”

“What was he searching for in the safe?” asked Hale.

“I know,” volunteered Mrs. Hale. She stared anywhere but at her
husband. “Austin had very wheedling ways, and sometimes when he was
hard pressed for money, he persuaded me to lend it to him.”

“Agatha!”

“I know, Robert, it was foolish.” Mrs. Hale’s voice trembled with
a suspicion of tears. “The sum finally totaled four thousand seven
hundred and eighty-two dollars.”

“Good Lord!” and Hale eyed her in dismay.

“I had his memorandum of his indebtedness,” she went on, paying no
attention to her husband. “I wrote reminding him of it, and that I
had placed it in your safe intending to show it to you, Robert--”
Hale groaned dismally and his wife burst into tears. “I dared not ask
outright about the memorandum as I feared it might be suspected that
Austin and I had quarreled over it.”

Judith broke in upon any reproaches her father might have made.

“It was to solve Austin’s reason for opening your safe, Father, that
caused me to search it this afternoon in hopes of finding a clew,” she
said.

“Where did you get the combination?”

“From your playing card,” she explained. “I knew your absent-minded
habits and recalled seeing some pin scratches on the Knave of Hearts
which, by the way, I picked up in this library Friday night and later
placed on top of my husband’s pack, thinking, as the back of the cards
were similar, it belonged to him. So this afternoon after Dr. McLane
left I could not rest, the card recurred to me, and I searched my
husband’s pack. Not finding it, I went to your den and discovered it
among your papers. I had just opened the safe when Maud”--catching
herself up--“that man, blindfolded me.”

“And what induced you to tempt providence again, Turner?” demanded
Ferguson turning to his prisoner. “You might have escaped detection but
for that.”

“Perhaps,” was the sullen answer. “I knew Mr. Hale had deposited
negotiable bonds and a large sum of money there over Sunday--”

Judith interrupted him with an exclamation. “Did you steal my Valve
bonds on Tuesday night?”

Turner nodded. “It was all I did get.” His bitter chuckle was brief.
“I was well scared after the murder but I dared not bolt for fear of
centering suspicion upon me, and then I had no money. I nosed around
everywhere looking for something I could steal to raise ready cash. I
was afraid to dispose of Miss Judith’s bonds because it might have been
traced to me. In my search I found Miss Polly had brought some bonds in
an envelope and when she was with Mrs. Hale I sneaked it out.”

“You did?” Polly looked at him in round-eyed surprise. “But I found the
bonds there.”

“Sure you did,” again Turner chuckled, “but they weren’t _your_
Valve bonds, but Miss Judith’s. I noticed they were the same, so I
substituted hers in your envelope, knowing that I could sell yours
without danger of the numbers’ being traced to Austin’s murder.”

“But--but,” Polly turned in perplexity to Richards. “Then the Valve
bonds I asked you to sell for me Friday afternoon were Judith’s?”

“Yes, evidently,” Richards addressed Frank Latimer. “I gave Miss Polly
my check for her bonds before going to your brokerage office where I
sold the bonds to you and put up the cash to cover my margins with
you.” Before the stockbroker could answer him, Richards looked at Polly
searchingly. “Tell us, Miss Polly, how you contrived to steal the
jewelry out of Judith’s bedroom last night when she and I were sitting
in the boudoir--the only entrance to the inner room?”

The girl was slow in answering. “After Judith left me last night, I was
desperate,” she admitted finally. “I feared the locket would be used
to entangle me in the murder, if not convict me of the crime, and I
decided to steal it at all costs. I took all your jewelry--which, by
the way, has been mailed back to you registered post, Judith--thinking
that the theft would then be attributed to an ordinary sneak thief.
As to how I passed you unobserved in entering your bedroom”--for the
first time Polly smiled--“some scientific detectives would describe
it as a case of psychological invisibility, where the physical eye
sees, but the brain fails to record the eye’s message, but”--again she
smiled--“you and Major Richards were so absorbed in each other that you
never noticed me when I slipped through the boudoir and out again.”

A rich color suffused Judith’s cheeks. “Did the locket contain your
letter, Polly?” she asked. “Or was Austin’s threat an idle one?
I”--with a quick proud lift of her head--“never examined the locket.”

Polly opened her hand bag to which she had clung ever since entering
the library, and took out the locket. She held it up that all might see
the slightly raised lettering of the word “Mizpah,” then without a word
she pressed a spring and from the locket took a many folded thin sheet
of note paper. She spread it open and laid it in John Hale’s hand.

“This is a letter of a foolish, indiscreet girl, longing for a little
attention, a little of this world’s fun,” she said soberly. “I was
caught by the dross, and it was not until I grew to know you, John,
that I found pure gold.”

John Hale looked at her and then at the letter.

“Austin telephoned me from New York to meet him here on Tuesday at
midnight and to say nothing to any one of his expected arrival,” he
stated. “He intimated that he had an important disclosure to make about
you. I left Agatha at the French Embassy, and I had just reached the
corner when I saw you, Polly, dash down the steps and go up the street.
I started to overtake you, then turned back. I could not make up my
mind to face Austin then, for I knew I would kill him,” John’s hands
clenched and unclenched spasmodically. “Finally, I returned to the
Embassy for Agatha and when we walked in here I was confronted with
Austin’s dead body. I imagined you had seen him, Polly, and goaded by
threats had stabbed him, for I recognized the shears as ones I had seen
on your desk in Robert’s den.”

John stopped speaking and looked down at the letter still clutched in
his extended hand, then striding swiftly to the fireplace he threw the
unread letter on the blazing wood. As it ignited and flared into a
blaze, he turned with outstretched hands to Polly who had watched him
in an agony of suspense.

“Polly,” he began, and his voice quivered with emotion, “will you take
me, for better, for worse?”

Polly’s eyes were blinded with tears, but winking them away, she looked
bravely up at him.

“Will _you_ take a repentant, adoring fool?” she asked, and John Hale’s
low cry of happiness found echo in her heart as, regardless of the
others, he slipped his arm about her and led her from the library.

Mrs. Hale watched the lovers disappear, and with mixed feelings,
searched hastily for a dry handkerchief. But all she dragged to light
out of her bag was a half sheet of note paper.

“Bless me!” she exclaimed. “Here’s that note from Austin to me saying
he was going to San Francisco--what did you do with the last page, my
dear?” turning to Judith.

“The last page?” echoed Judith; she looked as puzzled as she felt, and
Jim Turner answered the question for her.

“I found that paper in Austin’s bedroom, also,” he volunteered. “It
was just the half-sheet. Why he brought it with him I don’t know, but
anyway I thought it a good plant and slipped the page in the pocket
of Miss Judith’s electric, knowing some one would find it.” He turned
to Mrs. Hale who had moved a trifle nearer. “I have your memorandum
of Austin’s indebtedness to you; I kept it for blackmailing purposes,
but”--he stopped abruptly, conscious that his voice was a bit shaky.

“How’d you happen to disguise yourself as a woman?” asked Ferguson.

“I used to play in amateur theatricals, and on account of my small
size, effeminate appearance and voice was generally cast for a girl’s
part,” Turner explained. “I had to lay low after that Shield’s
affair--it meant fifteen years in the ‘pen’ if caught. Well,”--with
his free hand he dashed away the moisture which had gathered on his
forehead and felt his closely shaven head--“I’d rather be hung than
endure a living death. Come on, Ferguson,” and without a backward
glance he departed in charge of the detective.

Mrs. Hale dropped down on the divan and her expression caused her
husband to hurry to her side.

“Are you going to faint, Agatha?” he asked anxiously.

She looked at him vacantly before answering.

“I don’t know,” she said, “how I shall ever get over having my
confidential maid turn out to be a man,” and a burst of tears relieved
her overcharged feelings.

Richards left husband and wife together and turned to speak to Judith,
only to find her gone. A look in the dining room showed that she was
not there, and racing upstairs two steps at a time, he dashed into
their boudoir. Judith turned from the fireplace and looked at him
inquiringly.

“Judith,” his pent-up worship of her spoke in eye and voice, “what can
I say to you, my darling, my best beloved? Your faith, your loyalty--”

“Are surpassed by yours,” she answered softly, “dear heart of mine.”




Popular Copyright Novels

_AT MODERATE PRICES_

Ask Your Dealer for a Complete List of A. L. Burt Company’s Popular
Copyright Fiction


  =Adventures of Jimmie Dale, The.= By Frank L. Packard.
  =Adventures of Sherlock Holmes.= By A. Conan Doyle.
  =Affinities, and Other Stories.= By Mary Roberts Rinehart.
  =After House, The.= By Mary Roberts Rinehart.
  =Against the Winds.= By Kate Jordan.
  =Ailsa Paige.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Also Ran.= By Mrs. Baillie Reynolds.
  =Amateur Gentleman, The.= By Jeffery Farnol.
  =Anderson Crow, Detective.= By George Barr McCutcheon.
  =Anna, the Adventuress.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Anne’s House of Dreams.= By L. M. Montgomery.
  =Anybody But Anne.= By Carolyn Wells.
  =Are All Men Alike, and The Lost Titian.= By Arthur Stringer.
  =Around Old Chester.= By Margaret Deland.
  =Ashton-Kirk, Criminologist.= By John T. McIntyre.
  =Ashton-Kirk, Investigator.= By John T. McIntyre.
  =Ashton-Kirk, Secret Agent.= By John T. McIntyre.
  =Ashton-Kirk, Special Detective.= By John T. McIntyre.
  =Athalie.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =At the Mercy of Tiberius.= By Augusta Evans Wilson.
  =Auction Block, The.= By Rex Beach.
  =Aunt Jane of Kentucky.= By Eliza C. Hall.
  =Awakening of Helena Richie.= By Margaret Deland.

  =Bab: a Sub-Deb.= By Mary Roberts Rinehart.
  =Bambi.= By Marjorie Benton Cooke.
  =Barbarians.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Bar 20.= By Clarence E. Mulford.
  =Bar 20 Days.= By Clarence E. Mulford.
  =Barrier, The.= By Rex Beach.
  =Bars of Iron, The.= By Ethel M. Dell.
  =Beasts of Tarzan, The.= By Edgar Rice Burroughs.
  =Beckoning Roads.= By Jeanne Judson.
  =Belonging.= By Olive Wadsley.
  =Beloved Traitor, The.= By Frank L. Packard.
  =Beloved Vagabond, The.= By Wm. J. Locke.
  =Beltane the Smith.= By Jeffery Farnol.
  =Betrayal, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Beulah.= (Ill. Ed.) By Augusta J. Evans.
  =Beyond the Frontier.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Big Timber.= By Bertrand W. Sinclair.
  =Black Bartlemy’s Treasure.= By Jeffery Farnol.
  =Black Is White.= By George Barr McCutcheon.
  =Blacksheep! Blacksheep!.= By Meredith Nicholson.
  =Blind Man’s Eyes, The.= By Wm. Mac Harg and Edwin Balmer.
  =Boardwalk, The.= By Margaret Widdemer.
  =Bob Hampton of Placer.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Bob, Son of Battle.= By Alfred Olivant.
  =Box With Broken Seals, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Boy With Wings, The.= By Berta Ruck.
  =Brandon of the Engineers.= By Harold Bindloss.
  =Bridge of Kisses, The.= By Berta Ruck.
  =Broad Highway, The.= By Jeffery Farnol.
  =Broadway Bab.= By Johnston McCulley.
  =Brown Study, The.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =Bruce of the Circle A.= By Harold Titus.
  =Buccaneer Farmer, The.= By Harold Bindloss.
  =Buck Peters, Ranchman.= By Clarence E. Mulford.
  =Builders, The.= By Ellen Glasgow.
  =Business of Life, The.= By Robert W. Chambers.

  =Cab of the Sleeping Horse, The.= By John Reed Scott.
  =Cabbages and Kings.= By O. Henry.
  =Cabin Fever.= By B. M. Bower.
  =Calling of Dan Matthews, The.= By Harold Bell Wright.
  =Cape Cod Stories.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Cap’n Abe, Storekeeper.= By James A. Cooper.
  =Cap’n Dan’s Daughter.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Cap’n Erl.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Cap’n Jonah’s Fortune.= By James A. Cooper.
  =Cap’n Warren’s Wards.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Chinese Label, The.= By J. Frank Davis.
  =Christine of the Young Heart.= By Louise Breintenbach Clancy.
  =Cinderella Jane.= By Marjorie B. Cooke.
  =Cinema Murder, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =City of Masks, The.= By George Barr McCutcheon.
  =Cleek of Scotland Yard.= By T. W. Hanshew.
  =Cleek, The Man of Forty Faces.= By Thomas W. Hanshew.
  =Cleek’s Government Cases.= By Thomas W. Hanshew.
  =Clipped Wings.= By Rupert Hughes.
  =Clutch of Circumstance, The.= By Marjorie Benton Cooke.
  =Coast of Adventure, The.= By Harold Bindloss.
  =Come-Back, The.= By Carolyn Wells.
  =Coming of Cassidy, The.= By Clarence E. Mulford.
  =Coming of the Law, The.= By Charles A. Seltzer.
  =Comrades of Peril.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Conquest of Canaan, The.= By Booth Tarkington.
  =Conspirators, The.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Contraband.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Cottage of Delight, The.= By Will N. Harben.
  =Court of Inquiry, A.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =Cricket, The.= By Marjorie Benton Cooke.
  =Crimson Gardenia, The, and Other Tales of Adventure.= By Rex Beach.
  =Crimson Tide, The.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Cross Currents.= By Author of “Pollyanna.”
  =Cross Pull, The.= By Hal. G. Evarts.
  =Cry in the Wilderness, A.= By Mary E. Waller.
  =Cry of Youth, A.= By Cynthia Lombardi.
  =Cup of Fury, The.= By Rupert Hughes.
  =Curious Quest, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.

  =Danger and Other Stories.= By A. Conan Doyle.
  =Dark Hollow, The.= By Anna Katharine Green.
  =Dark Star, The.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Daughter Pays, The.= By Mrs. Baillie Reynolds.
  =Day of Days, The.= By Louis Joseph Vance.
  =Depot Master, The.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Destroying Angel, The.= By Louis Joseph Vance.
  =Devil’s Own, The.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Devil’s Paw, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Disturbing Charm, The.= By Berta Ruck.
  =Door of Dread, The.= By Arthur Stringer.
  =Dope.= By Sax Rohmer.
  =Double Traitor, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Duds.= By Henry C. Rowland.

  =Empty Pockets.= By Rupert Hughes.
  =Erskine Dale, Pioneer.= By John Fox, Jr.
  =Everyman’s Land.= By C. N. & A. M. Williamson.
  =Extricating Obadiah.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Eyes of the Blind, The.= By Arthur Somers Roche.
  =Eyes of the World, The.= By Harold Bell Wright.

  =Fairfax and His Pride.= By Marie Van Vorst.
  =Felix O’Day.= By F. Hopkinson Smith.
  =54-40 or Fight.= By Emerson Hough.
  =Fighting Chance, The.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Fighting Fool, The.= By Dane Coolidge.
  =Fighting Shepherdess, The.= By Caroline Lockhart.
  =Financier, The.= By Theodore Dreiser.
  =Find the Woman.= By Arthur Somers Roche.
  =First Sir Percy, The.= By The Baroness Orczy.
  =Flame, The.= By Olive Wadsley.
  =For Better, for Worse.= By W. B. Maxwell.
  =Forbidden Trail, The.= By Honoré Willsie.
  =Forfeit, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Fortieth Door, The.= By Mary Hastings Bradley.
  =Four Million, The.= By O. Henry.
  =From Now On.= By Frank L. Packard.
  =Fur Bringers, The.= By Hulbert Footner.
  =Further Adventures of Jimmie Dale.= By Frank L. Packard.

  =Get Your Man.= By Ethel and James Dorrance.
  =Girl in the Mirror, The.= By Elizabeth Jordan.
  =Girl of O. K. Valley, The.= By Robert Watson.
  =Girl of the Blue Ridge, A.= By Payne Erskine.
  =Girl from Keller’s, The.= By Harold Bindloss.
  =Girl Philippa, The.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Girls at His Billet, The.= By Berta Ruck.
  =Glory Rides the Range.= By Ethel and James Dorrance.
  =Gloved Hand, The.= By Burton E. Stevenson.
  =God’s Country and the Woman.= By James Oliver Curwood.
  =God’s Good Man.= By Marie Corelli.
  =Going Some.= By Rex Beach.
  =Gold Girl, The.= By James B. Hendryx.
  =Golden Scorpion, The.= By Sax Rohmer.
  =Golden Slipper, The.= By Anna Katharine Green.
  =Golden Woman, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Good References.= By E. J. Rath.
  =Gorgeous Girl, The.= By Nalbro Bartley.
  =Gray Angels, The.= By Nalbro Bartley.
  =Great Impersonation, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Greater Love Hath No Man.= By Frank L. Packard.
  =Green Eyes of Bast, The.= By Sax Rohmer.
  =Greyfriars Bobby.= By Eleanor Atkinson.
  =Gun Brand, The.= By James B. Hendryx.

  =Hand of Fu-Manchu, The.= By Sax Rohmer.
  =Happy House.= By Baroness Von Hutten.
  =Harbor Road, The.= By Sara Ware Bassett.
  =Havoc.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Heart of the Desert, The.= By Honoré Willsie.
  =Heart of the Hills, The.= By John Fox, Jr.
  =Heart of the Sunset.= By Rex Beach.
  =Heart of Thunder Mountain, The.= By Edfrid A. Bingham.
  =Heart of Unaga, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Hidden Children, The.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Hidden Trails.= By William Patterson White.
  =Highflyers, The.= By Clarence B. Kelland.
  =Hillman, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Hills of Refuge, The.= By Will N. Harben.
  =His Last Bow.= By A. Conan Doyle.
  =His Official Fiancee.= By Berta Ruck.
  =Honor of the Big Snows.= By James Oliver Curwood.
  =Hopalong Cassidy.= By Clarence E. Mulford.
  =Hound from the North, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =House of the Whispering Pines, The.= By Anna Katharine Green.
  =Hugh Wynne, Free Quaker.= By S. Weir Mitchell, M.D.
  =Humoresque.= By Fannie Hurst.

  =I Conquered.= By Harold Titus.
  =Illustrious Prince, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =In Another Girl’s Shoes.= By Berta Ruck.
  =Indifference of Juliet, The.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =Inez.= (Ill. Ed.) By Augusta J. Evans.
  =Infelice.= By Augusta Evans Wilson.
  =Initials Only.= By Anna Katharine Green.
  =Inner Law, The.= By Will N. Harben.
  =Innocent.= By Marie Corelli.
  =In Red and Gold.= By Samuel Merwin.
  =Insidious Dr. Fu-Manchu, The.= By Sax Rohmer.
  =In the Brooding Wild.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Intriguers, The.= By William Le Queux.
  =Iron Furrow, The.= By George C. Shedd.
  =Iron Trail, The.= By Rex Beach.
  =Iron Woman, The.= By Margaret Deland.
  =Ishmael.= (Ill.) By Mrs. Southworth.
  =Island of Surprise.= By Cyrus Townsend Brady.
  =I Spy.= By Natalie Sumner Lincoln.
  =It Pays to Smile.= By Nina Wilcox Putnam.
  =I’ve Married Marjorie.= By Margaret Widdemer.

  =Jean of the Lazy A.= By B. M. Bower.
  =Jeanne of the Marshes.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Jennie Gerhardt.= By Theodore Dreiser.
  =Johnny Nelson.= By Clarence E. Mulford.
  =Judgment House, The.= By Gilbert Parker.

  =Keeper of the Door, The.= By Ethel M. Dell.
  =Keith of the Border.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Kent Knowles: Quahaug.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Kingdom of the Blind, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =King Spruce.= By Holman Day.
  =Knave of Diamonds, The.= By Ethel M. Dell.

  =La Chance Mine Mystery, The.= By S. Carleton.
  =Lady Doc, The.= By Caroline Lockhart.
  =Land-Girl’s Love Story, A.= By Berta Ruck.
  =Land of Strong Men, The.= By A. M. Chisholm.
  =Last Straw, The.= By Harold Titus.
  =Last Trail, The.= By Zane Grey.
  =Laughing Bill Hyde.= By Rex Beach.
  =Laughing Girl, The.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Law Breakers, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Law of the Gun, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =League of the Scarlet Pimpernel.= By Baroness Orczy.
  =Lifted Veil, The.= By Basil King.
  =Lighted Way, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Lin McLean.= By Owen Wister.
  =Little Moment of Happiness, The.= By Clarence Budington Kelland.
  =Lion’s Mouse, The.= By C. N. & A. M. Williamson.
  =Lonesome Land.= By B. M. Bower.
  =Lone Wolf, The.= By Louis Joseph Vance.
  =Lonely Stronghold, The.= By Mrs. Baillie Reynolds.
  =Long Live the King.= By Mary Roberts Rinehart.
  =Lost Ambassador.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Lost Prince, The.= By Frances Hodgson Burnett.
  =Lydia of the Pines.= By Honorè Willsie.
  =Lynch Lawyers.= By William Patterson White.

  =Macaria.= (Ill. Ed.) By Augusta J. Evans.
  =Maid of the Forest, The.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Maid of Mirabelle, The.= By Eliot H. Robinson.
  =Maid of the Whispering Hills, The.= By Vingie E. Roe.
  =Major, The.= By Ralph Connor.
  =Maker of History, A.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Malefactor, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Man from Bar 20, The.= By Clarence E. Mulford.
  =Man from Bitter Roots, The.= By Caroline Lockhart.
  =Man from Tall Timber, The.= By Thomas K. Holmes.
  =Man in the Jury Box, The.= By Robert Orr Chipperfield.
  =Man-Killers, The.= By Dane Coolidge.
  =Man Proposes.= By Eliot H. Robinson, author of “Smiles.”
  =Man Trail, The.= By Henry Oyen.
  =Man Who Couldn’t Sleep, The.= By Arthur Stringer.
  =Marqueray’s Duel.= By Anthony Pryde.
  =Mary ’Gusta.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Mary Wollaston.= By Henry Kitchell Webster.
  =Mason of Bar X Ranch.= By E. Bennett.
  =Master Christian, The.= By Marie Corelli.
  =Master Mummer, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes.= By A. Conan Doyle.
  =Men Who Wrought, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Midnight of the Ranges.= By George Gilbert.
  =Mischief Maker, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Missioner, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Miss Million’s Maid.= By Berta Ruck.
  =Money Master, The.= By Gilbert Parker.
  =Money Moon, The.= By Jeffery Farnol.
  =Moonlit Way, The.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =More Tish.= By Mary Roberts Rinehart.
  =Mountain Girl, The.= By Payne Erskine.
  =Mr. Bingle.= By George Barr McCutcheon.
  =Mr. Grex of Monte Carlo.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Mr. Pratt.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Mr. Pratt’s Patients.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Mr. Wu.= By Louise Jordan Miln.
  =Mrs. Balfame.= By Gertrude Atherton.
  =Mrs. Red Pepper.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =My Lady of the North.= By Randall Parrish.
  =My Lady of the South.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Mystery of the Hasty Arrow, The.= By Anna K. Green.
  =Mystery of the Silver Dagger, The.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Mystery of the 13th Floor, The.= By Lee Thayer.

  =Nameless Man, The.= By Natalie Sumner Lincoln.
  =Ne’er-Do-Well, The.= By Rex Beach.
  =Net, The.= By Rex Beach.
  =New Clarion.= By Will N. Harben.
  =Night Horseman, The.= By Max Brand.
  =Night Operator, The.= By Frank L. Packard.
  =Night Riders, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =North of the Law.= By Samuel Alexander White.

  =One Way Trail, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Outlaw, The.= By Jackson Gregory.
  =Owner of the Lazy D.= By William Patterson White.

  =Painted Meadows.= By Sophie Kerr.
  =Palmetto.= By Stella G. S. Perry.
  =Paradise Bend.= By William Patterson White.
  =Pardners.= By Rex Beach.
  =Parrot & Co.= By Harold MacGrath.
  =Partners of the Night.= By Leroy Scott.
  =Partners of the Tide.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Passionate Pilgrim, The.= By Samuel Merwin.
  =Patricia Brent, Spinster.= By Anonymous.
  =Patrol of the Sun Dance Trail, The.= By Ralph Connor.
  =Paul Anthony, Christian.= By Hiram W. Hayes.
  =Pawns Count, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Peacemakers, The.= By Hiram W. Hayes.
  =Peddler, The.= By Henry C. Rowland.
  =People’s Man, A.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Peter Ruff and the Double Four.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Poor Man’s Rock.= By Bertrand Sinclair.
  =Poor Wise Man, A.= By Mary Roberts Rinehart.
  =Portygee, The.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Possession.= By Olive Wadsley.
  =Postmaster, The.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Prairie Flowers.= By James B. Hendryx.
  =Prairie Mother, The.= By Arthur Stringer.
  =Prairie Wife, The.= By Arthur Stringer.
  =Pretender, The.= By Robert W. Service.
  =Price of the Prairie, The.= By Margaret Hill McCarter.
  =Prince of Sinners, A.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Promise, The.= By J. B. Hendryx.

  =Quest of the Sacred Slipper, The.= By Sax Rohmer.

  =Rainbow’s End, The.= By Rex Beach.
  =Rainbow Valley.= By L. M. Montgomery.
  =Ranch at the Wolverine, The.= By B. M. Bower.
  =Ranching for Sylvia.= By Harold Bindloss.
  =Ransom.= By Arthur Somers Roche.
  =Real Life.= By Henry Kitchell Webster.
  =Reclaimers, The.= By Margaret Hill McCarter.
  =Re-Creation of Brian Kent, The.= By Harold Bell Wright.
  =Red and Black.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =Red Mist, The.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Red Pepper Burns.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =Red Pepper’s Patients.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =Red Seal, The.= By Natalie Sumner Lincoln.
  =Rejuvenation of Aunt Mary, The.= By Anne Warner.
  =Restless Sex, The.= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Return of Dr. Fu-Manchu, The.= By Sax Rohmer.
  =Return of Tarzan, The.= By Edgar Rice Burroughs.
  =Riddle of the Frozen Flame, The.= By M. E. and T. W. Hanshew.
  =Riddle of Night, The.= By Thomas W. Hanshew.
  =Riddle of the Purple Emperor, The.= By T. W. and M. E. Hanshew.
  =Rider of the King Log, The.= By Holman Day.
  =Rim of the Desert, The.= By Ada Woodruff Anderson.
  =Rise of Roscoe Paine, The.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Rising Tide, The.= By Margaret Deland.
  =Rocks of Valpré, The.= By Ethel M. Dell.
  =Room Number 3.= By Anna Katharine Green.
  =Rose in the Ring, The.= By George Barr McCutcheon.
  =Round the Corner in Gay Street.= By Grace S. Richmond.

  =St. Elmo.= (Ill. Ed.) By Augusta J. Evans.
  =Second Choice.= By Will N. Harben.
  =Second Latchkey, The.= By C. N. & A. M. Williamson.
  =Second Violin, The.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =Secret of the Reef, The.= By Harold Bindloss.
  =Secret of Sarek, The.= By Maurice Leblanc.
  =See-Saw, The.= By Sophie Kerr.
  =Self-Raised.= (Ill.) By Mrs. Southworth.
  =Shavings.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =Sheik, The.= By E. M. Hull.
  =Shepherd of the Hills, The.= By Harold Bell Wright.
  =Sheriff of Dyke Hole, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Sheriff of Silver Bow, The.= By Berton Braley.
  =Sherry.= By George Barr McCutcheon.
  =Side of the Angels, The.= By Basil King.
  =Sight Unseen and The Confession.= By Mary Robert Rinehart.
  =Silver Horde, The.= By Rex Beach.
  =Sin That Was His, The.= By Frank L. Packard.
  =Sixty-first Second, The.= By Owen Johnson.
  =Slayer of Souls, The.= By Robert W. Chambers
  =Son of His Father, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Son of Tarzan, The.= By Edgar Rice Burroughs.
  =Speckled Bird, A.= By Augusta Evans Wilson.
  =Spirit of the Border, The.= (New Edition.) By Zane Grey.
  =Spoilers, The.= By Rex Beach.
  =Steele of the Royal Mounted.= By James Oliver Curwood.
  =Still Jim.= By Honoré Willsie.
  =Story of Foss River Ranch, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Story of Marco, The.= By Eleanor H. Porter.
  =Strange Case of Cavendish, The.= By Randall Parrish.
  =Strawberry Acres.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =Sudden Jim.= By Clarence B. Kelland.
  =Sweethearts Unmet.= By Berta Ruck.

  =Tales of Secret Egypt.= By Sax Rohmer.
  =Tales of Sherlock Holmes.= By A. Conan Doyle.
  =Talitha Cumi.= By Annie J. Holland.
  =Taming of Zenas Henry, The.= By Sara Ware Bassett.
  =Tarzan of the Apes.= By Edgar Rice Burroughs.
  =Tarzan and the Jewels of Opar.= By Edgar Rice Burroughs.
  =Tempting of Tavemake, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Tess of the D’Urbervilles.= By Thomas Hardy.
  =Texan, The.= By James B. Hendryx.
  =Thankful’s Inheritance.= By Joseph C. Lincoln.
  =That Affair Next Door.= By Anna Katharine Green.
  =That Printer of Udell’s.= By Harold Bell Wright.
  =Their Yesterdays.= By Harold Bell Wright.
  =Thieves’ Wit.= By Hulbert Footner.
  =Thirteenth Commandment, The.= By Rupert Hughes.
  =Three Eyes, The.= By Maurice Leblanc.
  =Three of Hearts, The.= By Berta Ruck.
  =Three Strings, The.= By Natalie Sumner Lincoln.
  =Tiger’s Coat, The.= By Elizabeth Dejeans.
  =Tish.= By Mary Roberts Rinehart.
  =Tobias O’ the Light.= By James A. Cooper.
  =Trail of the Axe, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Trail to Yesterday, The.= By Charles A. Seltzer.
  =Trailin’.= By Max Brand.
  =Trap, The.= By Maximilian Foster.
  =Treasure of Heaven, The.= By Marie Corelli.
  =Triple Mystery, The.= By Adele Luehrmann.
  =Triumph, The.= By Will N. Harben.
  =Triumph of John Kars, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =T. Tembarom.= By Frances Hodgson Burnett.
  =Turn of the Tide.= By Author of “Pollyanna.”
  =Turnstile of Night, The.= By William Allison.
  =Twenty-fourth of June, The.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =Twins of Suffering Creek, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Two-Gun Man, The.= By Charles A. Seltzer.

  =Under Handicap.= By Jackson Gregory.
  =Under the Country Sky.= By Grace S. Richmond.
  =Underwood Mystery, The.= By Charles J. Dutton.
  =Uneasy Street.= By Arthur Somers Roche.
  =Unpardonable Sin, The.= By Major Rupert Hughes.
  =Untamed, The.= By Max Brand.
  =Up from Slavery.= By Booker T. Washington.

  =Valiants of Virginia, The.= By Hallie Ermine Rives.
  =Valley of Fear, The.= By Sir A. Conan Doyle.
  =Valley of the Sun, The.= By William M. McCoy.
  =Vanguards of the Plains.= By Margaret Hill McCarter.
  =Vanished Messenger, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =Vashti.= By Augusta Evans Wilson.
  =Virtuous Wives.= By Owen Johnson.
  =Voice of the Pack, The.= By Edson Marshall.

  =Waif-o’-the-Sea.= By Cyrus Townsend Brady.
  =Wall Between, The.= By Sara Ware Bassett.
  =Wall of Men, A.= By Margaret H. McCarter.
  =Watchers of the Plains, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Way Home, The.= By Basil King.
  =Way of an Eagle, The.= By E. M. Dell.
  =Way of the Strong, The.= By Ridgwell Cullum.
  =Way of These Women, The.= By E. Phillips Oppenheim.
  =We Can’t Have Everything.= By Major Rupert Hughes.
  =Weavers, The.= By Gilbert Parker.
  =West Wind Drift.= By George Barr McCutcheon.
  =When a Man’s a Man.= By Harold Bell Wright.
  =Where the Trail Divides.= By Will Lillibridge.
  =Where There’s a Will.= By Mary R. Rinehart.
  =White Moll, The.= By Frank L. Packard.
  =Who Goes There?= By Robert W. Chambers.
  =Why Not.= By Margaret Widdemer.




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:

On page 11, dectective has been changed to detective.

On page 115, con’t has been changed to don’t.

On page 224, dictagraph has been changed to dictograph.

In the list of the publisher’s catalog, the following changes have
been made:
  “Cabbage and Kings” became “Cabbages and Kings”;
  “Erskine Dale Pioneer” became “Erskine Dale, Pioneer”;
  “Honorè Willsie” became “Honoré Willsie”.

All other spelling and hyphenation has been left as typeset.

Minor silent changes have been make conform to standard punctuation
usage.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE UNSEEN EAR ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
